================================================================================

barebox-2023.10.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH OpenSSL-exception
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

In addition, as a special exception the copyright holders give
permission to link the code of this program with the OpenSSL Library (or with
modified versions of OpenSSL that use the same license as OpenSSL), and
distribute linked combinations including the two. You must obey the GNU General
Public License in all respects for all of the code used other than OpenSSL. If
you modify this file, you may extend this exception to your version of the
file, but you are not obligated to do so. If you do not wish to do so, delete
this exception statement from your version.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-only WITH eCos-exception-2.0
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

     c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section
2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
provided that you also do one of the following:

     a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed
on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does. Copyright
(C) yyyy name of author

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes
with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software,
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

As a special exception, if other files instantiate templates or use macros or
inline functions from this file, or you compile this file and link it with
other works to produce a work based on this file, this file does not by itself
cause the resulting work to be covered by the GNU General Public License.
However the source code for this file must still be made available in
accordance with section (3) of the GNU General Public License.

This exception does not invalidate any other reasons why a work based on this
file might be covered by the GNU General Public License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH eCos-exception-2.0
		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
                 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.
 
		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)
 
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.
 
  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.
 
  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
 
	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301,
USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

As a special exception, if other files instantiate templates or use macros or
inline functions from this file, or you compile this file and link it with other
works to produce a work based on this file, this file does not by itself cause
the resulting work to be covered by the GNU General Public License. However the
source code for this file must still be made available in accordance with
section (3) of the GNU General Public License.

This exception does not invalidate any other reasons why a work based on this
file might be covered by the GNU General Public License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH GCC-exception-2.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software. If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents. We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License. (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable. However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.


Copyright (C)  

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA


Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.


In addition to the permissions in the GNU General Public License, the
Free Software Foundation gives you unlimited permission to link the
compiled version of this file with other programs, and to distribute
those programs without any restriction coming from the use of this
file. (The General Public License restrictions do apply in other
respects; for example, they cover modification of the file, and
distribution when not linked into another program.)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


GPL-2.0-or-later WITH GCC-exception-2.0
		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
                 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301,
USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

In addition to the permissions in the GNU General Public License, the
Free Software Foundation gives you unlimited permission to link the
compiled version of this file with other programs, and to distribute
those programs without any restriction coming from the use of this
file.  (The General Public License restrictions do apply in other
respects; for example, they cover modification of the file, and
distribution when not linked into another program.)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note
             GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software. If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents. We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License. (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable. However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

This is a free software that opened for education, research and commercial
developments under license policy of following terms.

The FatFs module is a free software and there is NO WARRANTY.
No restriction on use. You can use, modify and redistribute it for personal,
non-profit or commercial products UNDER YOUR RESPONSIBILITY.
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-GNU-Licenses
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Linux-OpenIB

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Beerware

"THE BEER-WARE LICENSE" (Revision 42):
Sergey Lyubka wrote this file. As long as you retain this notice you
can do whatever you want with this stuff. If we meet some day, and you think
this stuff is worth it, you can buy me a beer in return.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-1-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS. "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA,
OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

bzip2-1.0.6

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must
not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this
software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product
documentation would be appreciated but is not required.

3. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must
not be misrepresented as being the original software.

4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unlicense

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.
Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or distribute this
software, either in source code form or as a compiled binary, for any purpose,
commercial or non-commercial, and by any means.
In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors of this
software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the software to the public
domain. We make this dedication for the benefit of the public at large and to
the detriment of our heirs and successors. We intend this dedication to be an
overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to
this software under copyright law.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: OpenSSL OR CRYPTOGAMS

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: MIT OR Unlicense

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later OR X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later OR MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later OR BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later OR BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only OR X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only OR MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only OR Linux-OpenIB

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only OR BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only OR BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later OR X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later OR MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cryptogams

Copyright (c) 2006, CRYPTOGAMS by <appro@openssl.org>
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

      *	Redistributions of source code must retain copyright notices,
	this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

      *	Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
	copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
	disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
	provided with the distribution.

      *	Neither the name of the CRYPTOGAMS nor the names of its
	copyright holder and contributors may be used to endorse or
	promote products derived from this software without specific
	prior written permission.

ALTERNATIVELY, provided that this notice is retained in full, this
product may be distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License (GPL), in which case the provisions of the GPL apply INSTEAD OF
those given above.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 * Neither the name Facebook, nor Meta, nor the names of its contributors may
   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
   specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of The Linux Foundation nor
the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL ALTERA CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Altera Corporation nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL ALTERA CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL MATTHEW CONTE BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Freescale Semiconductor nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by Freescale Semiconductor "as is" and any
express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are
disclaimed. In no event shall Freescale Semiconductor be liable for any
direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages
(including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services;
loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and
on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort
(including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of
this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Freescale Semiconductor nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Freescale Semiconductor ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL Freescale Semiconductor BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of IBM nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL IBM OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of IBM nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL IBM OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of OpenVPN Technologies nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of Broadcom nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of Broadcom Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Hewlett-Packard Co. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS
BE LIABLE FOR ANYDIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

* Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-only

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

     b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

     d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of
data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than
as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good
faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such
function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that
is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection
2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this
function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the
Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

     a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

     b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

     c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a
charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

     d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

     e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-
by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the
separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library
facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

     a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed
under the terms of the Sections above.

     b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of
it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.
     Copyright (C) year  name of author

     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

     This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more
details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in
the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written
by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice
That's all there is to it!


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-only

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

     c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section
2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
provided that you also do one of the following:

     a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed
on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does. Copyright
(C) yyyy name of author

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes
with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software,
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use
n   copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED , WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED , WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OpenSSL

OpenSSL License

Copyright (c) 1998-2008 The OpenSSL Project. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed
by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit.
(http://www.openssl.org/)"

4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to endorse
or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission.
For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may
"OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL
Project.

6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com). This product includes software written by Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).


Original SSLeay License

Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.

This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the
following conditions are aheared to. The following conditions apply to all code
found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just
the SSL code. The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered
by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code
are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should
be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be
in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online
or textual) provided with the package.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgement:
"This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com)"
The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library being
used are not cryptographic related :-).

4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the
apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This
product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be
copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public
Licence.]


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zlib

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
appreciated but is not required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly Mark Adler
jloup@gzip.org madler@alumni.caltech.edu

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zlib

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
appreciated but is not required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

This program is distributed in the hope it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

X11

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from the X
Consortium.

X Window System is a trademark of X Consortium, Inc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-or-later

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program
which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

   (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose
that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

      c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0-or-later

GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL. It is numbered 2 because
it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link a program
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so
that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what
they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others
will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually
obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary
software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be
licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.
This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in
full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary
license.

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running
a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and legal sense,
the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library,
and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions might
promote sharing better.

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of
those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.
This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free
programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such
programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them. (We have
not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have
achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.) The hope
is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called
"this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

      (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.

Copyright (C) year name of author

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0-only

GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is numbered 2
because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link a program
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so
that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what
they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others
will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually
obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary
software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be
licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.
This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in
full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary
license.

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running
a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and legal sense,
the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library,
and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions might
promote sharing better.

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of
those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.
This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free
programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such
programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them. (We have
not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have
achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.) The hope
is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called
"this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

     b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

     d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of
data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than
as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good
faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such
function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that
is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection
2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this
function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the
Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

     a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

     b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a
charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

     c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

     d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-
by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the
separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library
facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

     a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed
under the terms of the Sections above.

     b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of
it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties to this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.
     Copyright (C) year  name of author

     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

     This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library General Public License for more
details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in
the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written
by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-1.0-or-later

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 1, February 1989

Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users at the mercy
of those companies. By contrast, our General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. The General Public License applies to the
Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it. You can use it for your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make sure that you have
the freedom to give away or sell copies of free software, that you receive
source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or
use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these
things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must tell them
their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND
MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the
terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such
program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or
any work containing the Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications. Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this General
Public License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients
of the Program a copy of this General Public License along with the Program. You
may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above,
provided that you also do the following:

      a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change; and

      b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either with or
without modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under
the terms of this General Public License (except that you may choose to grant
warranty protection to some or all third parties, at your option).

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the simplest
and most usual way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this General Public
License.

      d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
other work under the scope of these terms.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party free (except for a nominal charge for the cost of
distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code,
to be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
corresponding source code may be obtained. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form alone.)

   Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable file, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special exception, it need
not include source code for modules which are standard libraries that accompany
the operating system on which the executable file runs, or for standard header
files or definitions files that accompany that operating system.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program
except as expressly provided under this General Public License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use the Program under this
License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights to use copies,
from you under this General Public License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based on
the Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all its
terms and conditions.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein.

   7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of the license which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of the license, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   9.

   BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) 19yy <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here a
sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes at assemblers)
written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or X11, in this
context X11 has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users
to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or X11. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-1.0-or-later or X11, in this
context X11 has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users
to choose either GPL-1.0-or-later or X11. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-1.0-or-later or MIT, in this
context MIT has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users
to choose either GPL-1.0-or-later or MIT. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under OpenSSL or CRYPTOGAMS, in this context
CRYPTOGAMS has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to
choose either OpenSSL or CRYPTOGAMS. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause, in
this context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom
of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause. For
convenience all license texts are provided.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause, in
this context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom
of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause. For
convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause, in
this context BSD-2-Clause has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience
all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or X11, in this
context X11 has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users
to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or X11. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or X11, in this context
X11 has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-2.0-only or X11. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under MIT or Unlicense, in this context MIT
has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either MIT or Unlicense. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or MIT, in this
context MIT has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users
to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or MIT. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause, in
this context BSD-3-Clause has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience
all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or MIT, in this context
MIT has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-2.0-only or MIT. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or BSD-3-Clause, in this
context BSD-3-Clause has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or Linux-OpenIB, in this
context Linux-OpenIB has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or Linux-OpenIB. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

Copyright (C) 2014 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
© Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
© Copyright 2016 Free Electrons
© Copyright 2016 ATMEL
© Copyright 2013 ATMEL, Josh Wu (josh.wu@atmel.com)
© Copyright 2012 ATMEL, Hong Xu
© Copyright 2006 ATMEL Rousset, Lacressonniere Nicolas
© 2023 Marc Reilly <marc@cpdesign.com.au>
© 2023 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
© 2022 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
© 2022 Ahmad Fatoum
© 2021 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
© 2021 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2021 Ahmad Fatoum
© 2019 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2019 Michael Tretter <m.tretter@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2017 Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
© 2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
© 2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
© 2015 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
© 2015 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
© 2015 Alexander Smirnov <alllecs@yandex.ru>
© 2014-2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
© 2014-2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
© 2014 Teresa Gámez <t.gamez@phytec.de>, PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
© 2014 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
© 2014 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2014 Maurits van der Schee
© 2014 Holger Schurig
© 2013 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
© 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2013 Juergen Beisert <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2013 Alexander Aring <aar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2012 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
© 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2012 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
© 2012 Juergen Beisert <kernel@pengutronix.de>
© 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
© 2012 Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>
© 2012 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
© 2011-2014 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
© 2011 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2011 Peter Korsgaard <jacmet@sunsite.dk>
© 2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
© 2011 Eric Bénard <eric@eukrea.com>, Eukréa Electromatique
© 2011 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
© 2010 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
© 2010 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2010 Eric Bénard <eric@eukrea.Com>, Eukréa Electromatique
© 2009-2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
© 2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2008-2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
© 2008 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2008 Nokia Corporation
© 2007 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
© 2000-2006 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
© 2000-2004 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
© 2000-2003 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
© 2000 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
copyrighted (C) 2009 by Shinya Kuribayashi <skuribay@pobox.com>
copyright IBM Corp. 2007
copyright 2000 by David A. Hinds dhinds@pcmcia.sourceforge.org>
copyright 1997-2000 by Donald Becker becker@scyld.com>
copyright (c) 2013-2016, ARM Limited and Contributors. All rights reserved.
copyright (c) 2002 Romain Lievin <roms@lpg.ticalc.org>.
Vladimir Oleynik <dzo@simtreas.ru> (c) 2001-2005
Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
SAN People
Richard Genoud (richard.genoud@gmail.com), Adeneo Copyright © 2007
Richard Genoud (richard.genoud@gmail.com), Adeneo Copyright 2007
Richard Genoud (richard.genoud@gmail.com), Adeneo Copyright (C) 2007
Cryptoapi developers.
Copyright: (C) 2019 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright: (C) 2015 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright: (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright:	MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright, C) 2015 Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright(c) 2021 Dominic Szablewski
Copyright(c) 2018 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>
Copyright(c) 2018 Broadcom
Copyright(c) 2017 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Broadcom
Copyright(c) 2016-2018 Broadcom
Copyright(c) 2016-2017 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2015-2017 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2015 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2014 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013 OpenVPN Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2011 Google, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2003 Motorola Inc.
Copyright(c) 2002,2003 Motorola Inc. Xianghua Xiao (x.xiao@motorola.com)
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2002 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(C) 2019 Author(s): Giulio Benetti
<giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright © International Business Machines Corp., 2006
Copyright © 2019 Synapse Product Development
Copyright © 2017-2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright © 2015 Pengutronix, Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>
Copyright © 2015 Google Inc.
Copyright © 2015 Broadcom
Copyright © 2014 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2013 Tony Breeds IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2013 Alistair Popple IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2011, Picochip.
Copyright © 2011 Tony Breeds IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2011 Parrot S.A.
Copyright © 2011 Ivan Djelic <ivan.djelic@parrot.com>
Copyright © 2009-2010, Intel Corporation and its suppliers.
Copyright © 2008 Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV. Author: Frans Meulenbroeks
Copyright © 2007 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2006 NEC Corporation
Copyright © 2006 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright © 2005 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park <kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright © 2005 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2004-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2004 Thomas Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright © 2004 Ferenc Havasi <havasi@inf.u-szeged.hu>, Zoltan Sogor
<weth@inf.u-szeged.hu>, Patrik Kluba <pajko@halom.u-szeged.hu>, University of
Szeged, Hungary
Copyright © 2004 Ferenc Havasi <havasi@inf.u-szeged.hu>, University of Szeged,
Hungary
Copyright © 2003 Rick Bronson
Copyright © 2002-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2002 Robert Kaiser <rkaiser@sysgo.de>
Copyright © 2001-2007 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright © 2001 Thomas Gleixner (gleixner@autronix.de)
Copyright © 2000-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> et al.
Copyright © 2000-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> Steven J. Hill
<sjhill@realitydiluted.com> Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright © 2000-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2000-2005 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linuxtronix.de>
Copyright © 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@cotw.com)
Copyright © 2000 Red Hat UK Limited
Copyright Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright The Asahi Linux Contributors
Copyright Rusty Russell IBM Corporation 2007.
Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2014
Copyright Matthew Wilcox for Intel Corp, 2010
Copyright Intel Corporation (C) 2017. All Rights Reserved
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2015. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2014. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2012-2014. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2012-2014. All rights reserved
Copyright 2023 VAHLE Automation GmbH
Copyright 2023 Toradex
Copyright 2023 Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2023 Realtek Semiconductor Corporation
Copyright 2023 LogicPD, Inc. dba Beacon EmbeddedWorks
Copyright 2023 Logic PD, Inc dba Beacon EmbeddedWorks
Copyright 2023 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2023 Inventec Corp.
Copyright 2023 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2023 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2023 Emtop Embedded Solutions
Copyright 2023 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2022 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright 2022 Toradex
Copyright 2022 StarFive Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright 2022 Sean Anderson <sean.anderson@seco.com>
Copyright 2022 Quanta Corp.
Copyright 2022 Pengutronix
Copyright 2022 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2022 NXP Peng Fan <peng.fan@nxp.com>
Copyright 2022 NXP
Copyright 2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright 2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2022 Ideas on Board Oy
Copyright 2022 Icenowy Zheng <uwu@icenowy.me>
Copyright 2022 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022 Google LLC.
Copyright 2022 Google LLC
Copyright 2022 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2022 Facebook Inc.
Copyright 2022 Fabio Estevam <festevam@denx.de>
Copyright 2022 Emil Renner Berthing <kernel@esmil.dk>
Copyright 2022 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2022 Broadcom Ltd.
Copyright 2022 Arm Ltd
Copyright 2022 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2022 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2022 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2021-2022 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Alexander Stein <alexander.stein@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2021-2022 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021-2022 NXP
Copyright 2021-2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright 2021, Arm Ltd
Copyright 2021 Westermo Network Technologies AB
Copyright 2021 Toradex
Copyright 2021 StarFive, Inc
Copyright 2021 Pengutronix e.K. Author: Rouven Czerwinski
Copyright 2021 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2021 NXP
Copyright 2021 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2021 Lucas Stach <dev@lynxeye.de>
Copyright 2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2021 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright 2021 Joel Stanley, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2021 Inventec Corp.
Copyright 2021 Ideas on Board Oy
Copyright 2021 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2021 Herve Codina <herve.codina@bootlin.com>
Copyright 2021 Google LLC.
Copyright 2021 Google LLC
Copyright 2021 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2021 Dillon Min <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021 Conley Lee Conley Lee <conleylee@foxmail.com>
Copyright 2021 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright 2021 BSH Hausgeraete GmbH
Copyright 2021 Arm Ltd.
Copyright 2021 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2021 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright 2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2021 - Dillon Min <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020-21 Cadence
Copyright 2020-2022 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020-2021 Variscite Ltd.
Copyright 2020-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH
Copyright 2020-2021 NXP
Copyright 2020, Compass Electronics Group, LLC
Copyright 2020, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020 thingy.jp.
Copyright 2020 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright 2020 Toshiba Electronic Devices & Storage Corporation
Copyright 2020 Puresoftware Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Protonic Holland
Copyright 2020 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020 Paul Kocialkowski <contact@paulk.fr>
Copyright 2020 Pascal Roeleven <dev@pascalroeleven.nl>
Copyright 2020 NXP
Copyright 2020 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright 2020 Lucas Stach <dev@lynxeye.de>
Copyright 2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2020 Linutronix GmbH Author: Benedikt Spranger
<b.spranger@linutronix.de>
Copyright 2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2020 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020 Google LLC.
Copyright 2020 Google LLC
Copyright 2020 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2020 Edmund Henniges <eh@emlix.com>
Copyright 2020 Daniel Glöckner <dg@emlix.com>
Copyright 2020 Compass Electronics Group, LLC
Copyright 2020 Broadcom
Copyright 2020 BayLibre, SAS
Copyright 2020 Arm Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Antmicro <www.antmicro.com>
Copyright 2020 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2020 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2020 Alexandru Lazar
Copyright 2019~2020, 2022 NXP
Copyright 2019~2020 NXP
Copyright 2019-2021 Traverse Technologies
Copyright 2019-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH
Copyright 2019-2021 NXP Zhou Guoniu <guoniu.zhou@nxp.com>
Copyright 2019-2021 NXP
Copyright 2019-2021 MNT Research GmbH
Copyright 2019-2020, The Linux Foundation, All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2019-2020 Variscite Ltd.
Copyright 2019-2020 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2019-2020 NXP
Copyright 2019-2020 MNT Research GmbH
Copyright 2019-2020 Artur Rojek
Copyright 2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2019 YADRO
Copyright 2019 Vladimir Oltean <olteanv@gmail.com>
Copyright 2019 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright 2019 Toradex
Copyright 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright 2019 SolidRun Ltd.
Copyright 2019 Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2019 Ondrej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright 2019 NXP.
Copyright 2019 NXP
Copyright 2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright 2019 Marcus Folkesson <marcus.folkesson@gmail.com>
Copyright 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam <mani@kernel.org>
Copyright 2019 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2019 Legrand AV Inc.
Copyright 2019 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright 2019 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright 2019 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2019 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2019 Google, Inc
Copyright 2019 Google LLC.
Copyright 2019 Google LLC
Copyright 2019 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2019 Einfochips
Copyright 2019 Broadcom Ltd.
Copyright 2019 Bootlin
Copyright 2019 Bhargav Shah <bhargavshah1988@gmail.com>
Copyright 2019 BayLibre, SAS
Copyright 2019 BayLibre SAS
Copyright 2019 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2019 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2019 Analogix Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2019 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2019 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright 2019 Ahmad Fatoum
Copyright 2019 Abaco Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2019 Abaco Systems Inc.
Copyright 2019 (C) Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2018-2023 TQ-Systems GmbH <linux@ew.tq-group.com>, D-82229 Seefeld,
Germany. Author: Alexander Stein
Copyright 2018-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2018-2022 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2018-2022 TQ Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2018-2021 Toradex
Copyright 2018-2021 NXP
Copyright 2018-2021 General Electric Company
Copyright 2018-2021 Collabora
Copyright 2018-2020 Purism SPC
Copyright 2018-2020 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018-2020 NXP
Copyright 2018-2019, Vladimir Oltean <olteanv@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018-2019 Purism SPC
Copyright 2018-2019 NXP.
Copyright 2018-2019 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018-2019 NXP
Copyright 2018, Sensor-Technik Wiedemann GmbH
Copyright 2018, 2020 NXP
Copyright 2018 Wandboard, Org.
Copyright 2018 Technexion Ltd.
Copyright 2018 TQ-Systems GmbH
Copyright 2018 TQ Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2018 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2018 NXP.
Copyright 2018 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018 NXP
Copyright 2018 Mesih Kilinc <mesihkilinc@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2018 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2018 InnoComm Mobile Technology Corp.
Copyright 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2018 IBM Corp
Copyright 2018 Grinn
Copyright 2018 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Google, Inc
Copyright 2018 Google LLC.
Copyright 2018 Einfochips
Copyright 2018 Digi International, Inc.
Copyright 2018 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright 2018 CogentEmbedded, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Christian Hemp <christian.hemp@posteo.de>
Copyright 2018 Boundary Devices
Copyright 2018 Bang & Olufsen
Copyright 2018 Alexander Monakov <amonakov@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 (C) Pengutronix, Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2017~2018 NXP
Copyright 2017-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2017-2020 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017-2020 NXP
Copyright 2017-2019 NXP
Copyright 2017-2018 Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP.
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP Semiconductor
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP
Copyright 2017 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Savoir-faire Linux
Copyright 2017 Savoir-Faire Linux
Copyright 2017 STMicroelectronics
Copyright 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright 2017 Olimex Ltd. Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan@olimex.com>
Copyright 2017 NXP.
Copyright 2017 NXP
Copyright 2017 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2017 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2017 Joel Stanley <joel@jms.id.au>
Copyright 2017 Impinj, Inc Author: Andrey Smirnov <andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2017 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2017 Free Electrons
Copyright 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2017 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright 2017 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright 2017 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2017 Alexander Kurz <akurz@blala.de>
Copyright 2017 ATMEL
Copyright 2017 - Vikas MANOCHA <vikas.manocha@st.com>
Copyright 2017 - Patrice Chotard <patrice.chotard@st.com>
Copyright 2017 - Free Electrons
Copyright 2017 - Alexandre Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com>
Copyright 2017 (C) Priit Laes <plaes@plaes.org>
Copyright 2016-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2016-2019 Toradex AG
Copyright 2016-2018 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright 2016-2018 Toradex AG
Copyright 2016-2018 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright 2016-2018 NXP
Copyright 2016-2017 NXP
Copyright 2016-2017 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2016-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2016-2017 Google, Inc
Copyright 2016 congatec AG
Copyright 2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright 2016 United Western Technologies.
Copyright 2016 Toradex AG
Copyright 2016 TQ Systems GmbH Author: Marco Felsch
Copyright 2016 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2016 Quentin Schulz
Copyright 2016 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach
Copyright 2016 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2016 NextThing Co
Copyright 2016 Mylène Josserand
Copyright 2016 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright 2016 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2016 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2016 Luo Yi <luoyi.ly@gmail.com>
Copyright 2016 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright 2016 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2016 Grinn
Copyright 2016 Google, Inc
Copyright 2016 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Free Electrons
Copyright 2016 Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.
Copyright 2016 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Christopher Spinrath
Copyright 2016 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Axis Communications AB.
Copyright 2016 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016 - Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan.mavrodiev@gmail.com> Olimex LTD.
<support@olimex.com>
Copyright 2016 - Lee Jones <lee.jones@linaro.org>
Copyright 2015-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2015-2020 Adam Sampson <ats@offog.org>
Copyright 2015-2017 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2015-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2015-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2015-2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2015, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Vishnu Patekar Vishnu Patekar <vishnupatekar0510@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Vishnu Patekar
Copyright 2015 Tyler Baker
Copyright 2015 Timesys Corporation.
Copyright 2015 Technologic Systems
Copyright 2015 Technexion Ltd.
Copyright 2015 Sutajio Ko-Usagi PTE LTD
Copyright 2015 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2015 Siarhei Siamashka <siarhei.siamashka@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Savoir-faire Linux
Copyright 2015 Priit Laes
Copyright 2015 NextThing Co
Copyright 2015 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2015 Marcus Cooper <codekipper@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Marcus Cooper
Copyright 2015 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2015 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2015 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2015 Lawrence Yu <lyu@micile.com>
Copyright 2015 Karsten Merker <merker@debian.org>
Copyright 2015 Juergen Borleis, Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2015 Josef Gajdusek <atx@atx.name>
Copyright 2015 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Jelle van der Waa <jelle@vdwaa.nl>
Copyright 2015 Jelle de Jong <jelledejong@powercraft.nl>
Copyright 2015 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright 2015 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2015 Gábor Nyers
Copyright 2015 Google, Inc
Copyright 2015 General Electric Company
Copyright 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2015 Free Electrons
Copyright 2015 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione <carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright 2015 CompuLab Ltd.
Copyright 2015 Cirrus Logic Inc.
Copyright 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2015 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2015 Ariel D'Alessandro <ariel.dalessandro@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Antoine Tenart <atenart@kernel.org>
Copyright 2015 Annapurna Labs Ltd.
Copyright 2015 Andy Fleming
Copyright 2015 Aleksei Mamlin Aleksei Mamlin <mamlinav@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Alban Bedel <albeu@free.fr>
Copyright 2015 - Ultimaker B.V. Author Olliver Schinagl <oliver@schinagl.nl>
Copyright 2015 - Maxime Coquelin <mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 - Marcus Cooper <codekipper@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 - Karsten Merker <merker@debian.org>
Copyright 2014-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2014-2020 Toradex
Copyright 2014-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2014-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014, 2015 O.S. Systems Software LTDA.
Copyright 2014 Zoltan HERPAI Zoltan HERPAI <wigyori@uid0.hu>
Copyright 2014 Ulrich Hecht
Copyright 2014 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2014 Soeren Moch <smoch@web.de>
Copyright 2014 Siarhei Siamashka <siarhei.siamashka@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2014 Rockchip Inc.
Copyright 2014 Raphaël Poggi
Copyright 2014 Prodrive Technologies B.V.
Copyright 2014 Open Source Support GmbH
Copyright 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright 2014 MundoReader S.L.
Copyright 2014 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2014 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2014 Linaro, Ltd. Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2014 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2014 Linaro Limited Author: Matt Porter <mporter@linaro.org>
Copyright 2014 Iain Paton <ipaton0@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Google, Inc Author: Alexandru M Stan <amstan@chromium.org>
Copyright 2014 Google, Inc
Copyright 2014 General Electric Company
Copyright 2014 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2014 GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2014 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright 2014 FEDEVEL, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.
Copyright 2014 CompuLab Ltd.
Copyright 2014 Christian Hemp <c.hemp@phytec.de>, PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2014 Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright 2014 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright 2014 Boris Brezillon
Copyright 2014 Beniamino Galvani <b.galvani@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 - Iain Paton <ipaton0@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 - Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2013-2017 Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-group.com>
Copyright 2013-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2013-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2013-2014 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2013-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2013-2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013-2014 Data-Modul AG
Copyright 2013 Wills Wang
Copyright 2013 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2013 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2013 Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@gmail.com>, PiKRON s.r.o.
Copyright 2013 Prodrive B.V.
Copyright 2013 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright 2013 Pavel Machek <pavel@denx.de>
Copyright 2013 Oliver Schinagl
Copyright 2013 Michael Burkey Christian Hemp, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright 2013 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2013 Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2013 Lucas Stach, Pengutronix <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagniol@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright 2013 Ideas On Board SPRL
Copyright 2013 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2013 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2013 Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
Copyright 2013 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2013 GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc.
Copyright 2013 GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc
Copyright 2013 GE Intelligent Platforms Inc.
Copyright 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2013 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013 Free Electrons
Copyright 2013 Eukréa Electromatique <eric@eukrea.com>
Copyright 2013 Eukréa Electromatique <denis@eukrea.com>
Copyright 2013 Emilio López
Copyright 2013 Data Modul AG
Copyright 2013 Crystalfontz America, Inc. Free Electrons
Copyright 2013 Crystalfontz America, Inc.
Copyright 2013 CompuLab Ltd. Author: Valentin Raevsky <valentin@compulab.co.il>
Copyright 2013 CompuLab Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Christian Hemp, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright 2013 CSC Australia Pty. Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2013 Armadeus Systems - <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2013 ATMEL, Josh Wu (josh.wu@atmel.com)
Copyright 2013 - 2022 CZ.NIC z.s.p.o. (http://www.nic.cz/)
Copyright 2013 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012-2017 <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2012-2015 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2012-2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012 Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright 2012 Steffen Trumtrar, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Stefan Roese Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Shiraz Hashim <shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Shawn Guo <shawn.guo@linaro.org>
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer, Uwe Kleine-König, Steffen Trumtrar and Markus
Pargmann, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright 2012 ST-Ericsson
Copyright 2012 Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>
Copyright 2012 Philippe Reynes <tremyfr@yahoo.fr>
Copyright 2012 Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>, Free Electrons
Copyright 2012 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright 2012 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2012 Markus Pargmann, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2012 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2012 Laurent Cans <laurent.cans@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Kim Phillips, Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright 2012 GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc.
Copyright 2012 GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc
Copyright 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Roy Zang <tie-
fei.zang@freescale.com>
Copyright 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012 Free Electrons
Copyright 2012 Denis 'GNUtoo' Carikli <GNUtoo@no-log.org>
Copyright 2012 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Armadeus Systems - <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2012 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2012 Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 ATMEL, Hong Xu
Copyright 2012 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011-2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011-2014, ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012 Calxeda, Inc.
Copyright 2011, ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2011 The Chromium Authors, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Sebastian Andrzej Siewior <bigeasy@linutronix.de>
Copyright 2011 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright 2011 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2011 Linaro
Copyright 2011 Intel Corporation; author Matt Fleming
Copyright 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011 Ben Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2011 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Picochip Ltd., Jamie Iles http://www.picochip.com
Copyright 2010-2011 GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Dipen Dudhat
<dipen.dudhat@freescale.com>
Copyright 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2010,2012 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2010,2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2010, Denys Vlasenko
Copyright 2010 Wolfram Sang <w.sang@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2010 Torez Smith, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2010 Silicon Turnkey Express LLC.
Copyright 2010 Orex Computed Radiography
Copyright 2010 Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems, yanok@emcraft.com
Copyright 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Authors: Srikanth Srinivasan
<srikanth.srinivasan@freescale.com> Timur Tabi <timur@freescale.com>
Copyright 2010 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2010 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2010 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Dave Liu
<daveliu@freescale.com>
Copyright 2009-2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009-2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd. Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca> Steven Cavanagh <scavanagh@secretlab.ca>
Copyright 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009 AbsoluteValue Systems <solomon@linux-wlan.com>
Copyright 2009 AMCC (AppliedMicro) <ttnguyen@amcc.com>
Copyright 2009 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009 - 2010 DENX Software Engineering. Anatolij Gustschin
<agust@denx.de>
Copyright 2008-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Dave Liu
<daveliu@freescale.com>
Copyright 2008-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2010 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2008-2009, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2009 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2008,2010 Anton Vorontsov <cbouatmailru@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc Andy Fleming
Copyright 2008, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008, 2010-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008, 2010-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright 2008 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Martin Fuzzey, mfuzzey@gmail.com
Copyright 2008 Juergen Beisert, kernel@pengutronix.de
Copyright 2008 Jon Loeliger, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008 IBM Corp. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2008 Giuseppe Coviello <gicoviello@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008 Gerhard Pircher (gerhard_pircher@gmx.net)
Copyright 2008 GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Written By Michael Meissner
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 DENX Software Engineering
Copyright 2008 Codehermit
Copyright 2008 AMCC <tmarri@amcc.com>
Copyright 2007-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2009, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007-2009 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2007-2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008 Extreme Engineering Solutions, Inc. Author: Nate Case
<ncase@xes-inc.com>
Copyright 2007,2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2007, 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007 Sony Corp.
Copyright 2007 SBS Technologies GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright 2007 Pengutronix Juergen Beisert <j.beisert@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2007 Oyvind Repvik
Copyright 2007 Jon Loeliger, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007 Jon Loeliger
Copyright 2007 Intel Corporation <jonathan.lynch@intel.com>
Copyright 2007 IBM Corp. Hugh Blemings <hugh@au.ibm.com> Josh Boyer
<jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>, David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2006-2009 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2006-2007 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd. Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca>
Copyright 2006-2007 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright 2006,2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2006, Rob Landley <rob@landley.net>
Copyright 2006, 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2006 Sam Ravnborg
Copyright 2006 Pengutronix Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2006 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2006 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2006 ATMEL Rousset, Lacressonniere Nicolas
Copyright 2005-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2005-2009 - Steven Rostedt
Copyright 2005-2006 Red Hat Inc, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2005, 2006, 2007 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005 Mentor Graphics Corporation
Copyright 2004-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004,2007-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004, 2007-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004, 2007-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004, 2007, 2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004, 2007 Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright 2003, Glenn McGrath
Copyright 2003 Rick Bronson
Copyright 2003 Kai Germaschewski
Copyright 2002-2004 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2002-2003 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation 2003 Kai Germaschewski
Copyright 2002, Phil Karn
Copyright 2002 by Kai Germaschewski <kai.germaschewski@gmx.de>
Copyright 2002 by Kai Germaschewski
Copyright 2002 Phil Karn
Copyright 2002 Intel (eli.kupermann@intel.com, christopher.leech@intel.com,
scott.feldman@intel.com)
Copyright 2001 Thomas Gleixner (gleixner@autronix.de)
Copyright 2001 Sun Microsystems (thockin@sun.com)
Copyright 2001 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2000,2001,2002,2004 Dell Inc.
Copyright 2000,2001 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@mandrakesoft.com>
Copyright 2000,2001 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2000,2001 Dell Inc.
Copyright 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@cotw.com)
Copyright 1998 by Egbert Eich <Egbert.Eich@Physik.TU-Darmstadt.DE>
Copyright 1997--1999 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright 1995, Russell King. Linus Torvalds
Copyright 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2003, 2004, 2005 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright 1994, Drew Eckhardt
Copyright (c) Vaisala Oyj. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2021
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2018-2023
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2018-2021
Copyright (c) STMicroelectronics 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2007
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2006, 2007
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2006
Copyright (c) Mathias Krause <minipli@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) Masami Komiya <mkomiya@sonare.it> 2004
Copyright (c) Jean-Luc Cooke <jlcooke@certainkey.com>
Copyright (c) Jean-Francois Dive <jef@linuxbe.org>
Copyright (c) Jean Thomas <virgule@jeanthomas.me>
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2006
Copyright (c) Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) BayLibre, SAS. Author : Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) Andrew McDonald <andrew@mcdonald.org.uk>
Copyright (c) Alan Smithee.
Copyright (c) 2023, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2023, SberDevices. All Rights Reserved. Author: Dmitry Rokosov
<ddrokosov@sberdevices.ru>
Copyright (c) 2023, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2023, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2023, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2023, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2023, David Wronek <davidwronek@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2023, Danila Tikhonov <danila@jiaxyga.com>
Copyright (c) 2023, Dang Huynh <danct12@riseup.net>
Copyright (c) 2023 Tianling Shen <cnsztl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 Thomas McKahan
Copyright (c) 2023 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2023 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2023 Neil Armstrong <neil.armstrong@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2023 MediaTek Inc. Author: Balsam CHIHI <bchihi@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 Markuss Broks
Copyright (c) 2023 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2023 Jianhua Lu <lujianhua000@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 Edgeble AI Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2023 Collabora Ltd. Author: AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 BayLibre Inc.
Copyright (c) 2023 Amlogic, Inc. Author: hongyu chen1 <hongyu.chen1@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Huqiang Qin
<huqiang.qin@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2023 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022-2023, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022-2023, Bryan O'Donoghue.
Copyright (c) 2022-2023 TQ-Systems GmbH <linux@ew.tq-group.com>, D-82229
Seefeld, Germany. Author: Markus Niebel Author: Alexander Stein
Copyright (c) 2022-2023 TQ-Systems GmbH <linux@ew.tq-group.com>, D-82229
Seefeld, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2022-2023 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Xilin Wu <strongtz@yeah.net>
Copyright (c) 2022, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Sireesh Kodali
Copyright (c) 2022, Richard Acayan. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Molly Sophia <mollysophia379@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Matti Lehtimäki <matti.lehtimaki@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Marijn Suijten <marijn.suijten@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2022, Lux Aliaga <they@mint.lgbt>
Copyright (c) 2022, Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2022, Luca Weiss <luca.weiss@fairphone.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2022, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2022, Julian Braha <julianbraha@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Harry Austen <hpausten@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Google LLC
Copyright (c) 2022, Gianluca Boiano <morf3089@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Gabriela David
Copyright (c) 2022, Eugene Lepshy <fekz115@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Dzmitry Sankouski <dsankouski@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Dylan Van Assche <me@dylanvanassche.be>
Copyright (c) 2022, Dominik Kobinski <dominikkobinski314@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Degdag Mohamed <degdagmohamed@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Danila Tikhonov <JIaxyga@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Collabora Ltd Author: AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Caleb Connolly <caleb@connolly.tech>
Copyright (c) 2022, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Anton Bambura <jenneron@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2022, Ampere Computing LLC
Copyright (c) 2022, Alexander Martinz <amartinz@shiftphones.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Alejandro Tafalla
Copyright (c) 2022, Alec Su <ae40515@yahoo.com.tw>
Copyright (c) 2022, 2023 Jianhua Lu <lujianhua000@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Wesion, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2022 Ufispace Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2022 The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 TQ-Systems GmbH <linux@ew.tq-group.com>, D-82229 Seefeld,
Germany. Author: Markus Niebel
Copyright (c) 2022 TQ-Systems GmbH <linux@ew.tq-group.com>, Author: Alexander
Stein
Copyright (c) 2022 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Chanho Park
<chanho61.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 STMicroelectronics SA.
Copyright (c) 2022 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Radxa Limited Author: Yuntian Zhang <yt@radxa.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Radxa Limited
Copyright (c) 2022 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Neil Armstrong <neil.armstrong@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 Microchip Technology Inc
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Runyang Chen
<runyang.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Garmin Chang
<garmin.chang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chun-Jie Chen <chun-
jie.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chengci Xu <chengci.xu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 Maya Matuszczyk <maccraft123mc@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Linaro Ltd Author: Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2022 JetHome Author: Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in> Author:
Aleksandr Kazantsev <ak@tvip.ru> Author: Alexey Shevelkin <ash@tvip.ru>
Copyright (c) 2022 JetHome Author: Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2022 Henrik Grimler
Copyright (c) 2022 Hardkernel Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 FriendlyElec Computer Tech. Co., Ltd.
http://www.friendlyelec.com)
Copyright (c) 2022 EmbedFire <embedfire@embedfire.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Edgeble AI Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Dongjin Kim <tobetter@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Collabora Ltd. Author: Sebastian Reichel
<sebastian.reichel@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Collabora Ltd. Author: AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Amarulasolutions
Copyright (c) 2022 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (c) 2021-2023, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2023, Petr Vorel <petr.vorel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021-2023, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2021-2023 Tianling Shen <cnsztl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, Petr Vorel <petr.vorel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 BayLibre, SAS. Authors: Fabien Parent
<fparent@baylibre.com> Bernhard Rosenkränzer <bero@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Raffaele Tranquillini <raffaele.tranquillini@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Martin Botka <martin.botka@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Marcel Ziswiler <marcel@ziswiler.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2021, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Jami Kettunen <jamipkettunen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Iskren Chernev <iskren.chernev@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Dang Huynh <danct12@riseup.net>
Copyright (c) 2021, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2021 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp> Author:
Romain Perier <romain.perier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2021 emtrion GmbH Author: Reinhold Müller
<reinhold.mueller@emtrion.de>.
Copyright (c) 2021 emtrion GmbH Author: Frank Erdrich
<frank.erdrich@emtrion.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Yassine Oudjana <y.oudjana@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2021 Tianling Shen <cnsztl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 T-Chip Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2021 Sergio Paracuellos Author: Sergio Paracuellos
<sergio.paracuellos@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 SUSE LLC
Copyright (c) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine Zhang
<zhangqing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2021 Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2021 Nuvoton Technology tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com
Copyright (c) 2021 Microchip Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Wenzhen.Yu <wenzhen.yu@mediatek.com>
Author: Jianhui Zhao <zhaojh329@gmail.com> Author: Daniel Golle
<daniel@makrotopia.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Seiya Wang <seiya.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jason-JH Lin
<jason0jh.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chun-Jie Chen <chun-
jie.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Christine Zhu
<christine.zhu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Maxim Kutnij <gtk3@inbox.ru>
Copyright (c) 2021 Linaro Ltd. Author: Sam Protsenko
<semen.protsenko@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Kamil Trzciński <ayufan@ayufan.eu>
Copyright (c) 2021 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Inspur Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2021 FriendlyElec Computer Tech. Co., Ltd.
http://www.friendlyarm.com)
Copyright (c) 2021 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Dávid Virág
Copyright (c) 2021 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 BayLibre SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Aspeed Tehchnology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Aspeed Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. Author: Shunzhou Jiang
<shunzhou.jiang@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Zelong Dong
<zelong.dong@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Qianggui Song
<qianggui.song@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Huqiang Qin
<huqiang.qin@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum
Copyright (c) 2020-2023, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020-2023, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020-2022 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Microchip Technology Inc
Copyright (c) 2020, Yassine Oudjana <y.oudjana@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Xilin Wu <strongtz@yeah.net>
Copyright (c) 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Silicon Laboratories, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Martin Botka <martin.botka1@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Martin Botka
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Ltd. Author: Jun Nie <jun.nie@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020, Konrad Dybcio <konradybcio@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Konrad Dybcio
Copyright (c) 2020, Gustave Monce <gustave.monce@outlook.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno <kholk11@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Alexey Minnekhanov <alexey.min@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2020 huangzhenwei@allwinnertech.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Yangtao Li <frank@allwinnertech.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2020 Tobias Schramm <t.schramm@manjaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Super Micro Computer, Inc
Copyright (c) 2020 Stenkin Evgeniy <stenkinevgeniy@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 SiFive, Inc
Copyright (c) 2020 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Quanta Computer Inc. George.Hung@quantatw.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2020 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2020 Nuvoton Technology
Copyright (c) 2020 Nicolas Saenz Julienne Author: Nicolas Saenz Julienne
<nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Nicolas Saenz Julienne Author: Nicolas Saenz Julienne
<nsaenzjulienne@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 NXP
Copyright (c) 2020 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yongqiang Niu
<yongqiang.niu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Liang <yong.liang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weiyi Lu <weiyi.lu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek
Copyright (c) 2020 Marty Jones <mj8263788@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Martijn Braam <martijn@brixit.nl>
Copyright (c) 2020 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 JetHome Author: Aleksandr Kazantsev <ak@tvip.ru> Author:
Alexey Shevelkin <ash@tvip.ru> Author: Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2020 Jensen Huang <jensenhuang@friendlyarm.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2020 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2020 FriendlyElec Computer Tech. Co., Ltd.
http://www.friendlyarm.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Fii USA Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Engicam srl
Copyright (c) 2020 Dongjin Kim <tobetter@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 David Bauer <mail@david-bauer.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 Cristian Ciocaltea <cristian.ciocaltea@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: Honghui Zhang
<honghui.zhang@mediatek.com> Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (c) 2020 Amarula Solutions
Copyright (c) 2020 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2020 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Aditya Prayoga <aditya@kobol.io>
Copyright (c) 2020 AMD Inc. Author: Supreeth Venkatesh
<supreeth.venkatesh@amd.com>
Copyright (c) 2019-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 NXP
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NXP Author: Alexandre Bailon <abailon@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NXP
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Matheus Castello
Copyright (c) 2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Samsung Electronics Author: Lukasz Luba
<l.luba@partner.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Ltd. Author: Georgi Djakov <georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2019, Jeffrey Hugo. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Jeffrey Hugo
Copyright (c) 2019, BayLibre
Copyright (c) 2019, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno <kholk11@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2019 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2019 Zhou Yanjie <zhouyanjie@zoho.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Vamrs Limited
Copyright (c) 2019 Three-Speed Logic, Inc. <gsmecher@threespeedlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Siemens AG
Copyright (c) 2019 Shenzhen Wesion Technology Co., Ltd. https://www.khadas.com)
Copyright (c) 2019 Rouven Czerwinski <r.czerwinski@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2019 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Finley Xiao
<finley.xiao@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright (c) 2019 Radxa Limited
Copyright (c) 2019 Quanta Computer lnc. Fran.Hsu@quantatw.com
Copyright (c) 2019 Quanta Computer Inc. Samuel.Jiang@quantatw.com
Copyright (c) 2019 Quanta Computer Inc. <Samuel.Jiang@quantatw.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2019 Pragnesh Patel <Pragnesh_Patel@mentor.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Nuvoton Technology corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019 Nuvoton Technology <kwliu@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Nordic Semiconductor ASA
Copyright (c) 2019 NXP
Copyright (c) 2019 Mohammad Rasim <mohammad.rasim96@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Microchip Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Liang <yong.liang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Wendell Lin <wendell.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Dennis-YC Hsieh <dennis-
yc.hsieh@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chao Hao <chao.hao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Bibby Hsieh <bibby.hsieh@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Markus Reichl <m.reichl@fivetechno.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Katsuhiro Suzuki <katsuhiro@katsuster.net>
Copyright (c) 2019 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (c) 2019 Jagan Teki <jagan@openedev.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Hardkernel Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Engicam srl
Copyright (c) 2019 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Brian Masney <masneyb@onstation.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre SAS. All rights reserved. Author: Jerome Brunet
<jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre SAS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Andy Yan <andy.yan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. Author: Jianxin Pan <jianxin.pan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Qianggui Song
<qianggui.song@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Jian Hu
<jian.hu@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc Author: Jianxin Pan <jianxin.pan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (c) 2019 Albert Schwarzkopf <a.schwarzkopf@phytec.de>, PHYTEC
Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (c) 2019 Akash Gajjar <akash@openedev.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Akash Gajjar <Akash_Gajjar@mentor.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2019 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Ahmad Fatoum
Copyright (c) 2018-2023, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2023 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc
Copyright (c) 2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Robert Marko <robimarko@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Ltd. Author: Georgi Djakov <georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2018, Craig Tatlor.
Copyright (c) 2018, 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (c) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Gusakov
<andrey.gusakov@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Thomas Haemmerle <thomas.haemmerle@wolfvision.net>
Copyright (c) 2018 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2018 Texas Instruments Author: Sekhar Nori <nsekhar@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2018 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2018 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2018 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (c) 2018 Oleg Ivanov <balbes-150@yandex.ru>
Copyright (c) 2018 Nuvoton Technology tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com
Copyright (c) 2018 Nuvoton Technology
Copyright (c) 2018 Nikita Yushchenko <nikita.yoush@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 NXP
Copyright (c) 2018 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner
<heiko.stuebner@bq.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Miquèl RAYNAL <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Microchip Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weiyi Lu <weiyi.lu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Houlong Wei <houlong.wei@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chenglin Xu <chenglin.xu@mediatek.com>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ben Ho <ben.ho@mediatek.com> Erin Lo
<erin.lo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>.
Copyright (c) 2018 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (c) 2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 LSI-TEC - Caninos Loucos
Copyright (c) 2018 Inventec Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Inspur Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2018 He Yangxuan
Copyright (c) 2018 Google LLC
Copyright (c) 2018 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2018 FriendlyElec Computer Tech. Co., Ltd.
http://www.friendlyarm.com)
Copyright (c) 2018 Facebook Inc. Author: Vijay Khemka <vijaykhemka@fb.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Christian Hemp
Copyright (c) 2018 Bitmain Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Baylibre SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com> Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre SAS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, inc. Author: Qiufang Dai <qiufang.dai@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Akash Gajjar <Akash_Gajjar@mentor.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 - Bootlin
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Tesla, Inc. https://www.tesla.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Tesla, Inc. https://www.tesla.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 NXP
Copyright (c) 2017-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Socionext Inc. Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com> Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Technology Inc. 2017 Cristian Birsan
<cristian.birsan@microchip.com> 2017 Claudiu Beznea
<claudiu.beznea@microchip.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Technology Inc. 2016 Nicolas Ferre
<nicolas.ferre@atmel.com> 2017 Cristian Birsan <cristian.birsan@microchip.com>
2017 Claudiu Beznea <claudiu.beznea@microchip.com> 2019 Ahmad Fatoum
<a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Technology Inc. 2016 Nicolas Ferre
<nicolas.ferre@atmel.com> 2017 Cristian Birsan <cristian.birsan@microchip.com>
2017 Claudiu Beznea <claudiu.beznea@microchip.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017, Impinj, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2017 T-Chip Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017 Sean Barrett
Copyright (c) 2017 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 SKIDATA AG
Copyright (c) 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine <zhangqing@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 PINE64
Copyright (c) 2017 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2017 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 Oleg <balbes-150@yandex.ru>
Copyright (c) 2017 NXP.
Copyright (c) 2017 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: YT Shen <yt.shen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weiyi Lu <weiyi.lu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ming Huang <ming.huang@mediatek.com>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Kevin Chen <kevin-cw.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chen Zhong <chen.zhong@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>.
Copyright (c) 2017 Marek Szyprowski
Copyright (c) 2017 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (c) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017 Free Electrons <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Free Electrons
Copyright (c) 2017 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Carlo Caione
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com> Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, inc. Author: Yixun Lan <yixun.lan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 - 2022: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2016-present, Yann Collet, Facebook, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-present, Przemyslaw Skibinski, Yann Collet, Facebook, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-present, Facebook, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2022, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2016-2022, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2016-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Savoir-faire Linux Inc. Vivien Didelot
<vivien.didelot@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2016-17 Microsemi Corporation. Padmarao Begari, Microsemi
Corporation <padmarao.begari@microsemi.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, NVIDIA Corporation. Author: Laxman Dewangan
<ldewangan@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION.
Copyright (c) 2016, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Yang Ling <gnaygnil@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Xunlong Software. Co., Ltd. http://www.orangepi.org)
Copyright (c) 2016 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com Author:
Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016 SUMOMO Computer Association https://www.sumomo.mobi Randy Li
<ayaka@soulik.info>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Xing Zheng
<zhengxing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Shawn Lin
<shawn.lin@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine <zhangqing@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Randy Li <ayaka@soulik.info>
Copyright (c) 2016 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2016 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Paweł Jarosz <paweljarosz3691@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Matthias Brugger <mbrugger@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Krzysztof Kozlowski
Copyright (c) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2016 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016 FUKAUMI Naoki <naobsd@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Endless Computers, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Author: Kevin Hilman <khilman@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Andy Yan <andy.yan@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2016 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015-2021, Tony Dinh <mibodhi@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Krzysztof Kozlowski
Copyright (c) 2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, National Instruments Corp. Author: Moritz Fischer
<moritz.fischer@ettus.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015, LGE Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Huawei Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Hans Ulli Kroll <ulli.kroll@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Atmel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015 Zodiac Inflight Innovations Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
Copyright (c) 2015 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (c) 2015 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2015 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Xing Zheng
<zhengxing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Jeffy Chen
<jeffy.chen@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Daniel Schultz
<d.schultz@phytec.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek, Shunli Wang <shunli.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Honghui Zhang
<honghui.zhang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Erin.Lo <erin.lo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Erin Lo <erin.lo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Biao Huang <biao.huang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2015 Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com> Anand Moon
<linux.amoon@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015 Krzysztof Kozlowski
Copyright (c) 2015 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2015 Caesar Wang <wxt@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2014-2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2014, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2014, Adam Baker <linux@baker-net.org.uk> Peter Schildmann
Copyright (c) 2014, Adam Baker <linux@baker-net.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2014, 2015 FUKAUMI Naoki <naobsd@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, 2015 Andy Yan <andy.yan@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 sigma star gmbh Author: Richard Weinberger <richard@nod.at>
Copyright (c) 2014 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Wadim Egorov <w.egorov@phytec.de>, Phytec
Copyright (c) 2014 Uwe Kleine-König, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2014 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Sebastian Block <basti@linux-source.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Tomasz Figa
<t.figa@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Thomas Abraham
<thomas.ab@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Rahul Sharma
<rahul.sharma@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Naveen Krishna Ch
<naveenkrishna.ch@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrey Ryabinin
<ryabinin.a.a@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrey Ryabinin
<a.ryabinin@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH
Copyright (c) 2014 Romain Perier <romain.perier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2014 MundoReader S.L. Author: Matthias Brugger
<matthias.bgg@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Shunli Wang <shunli.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Joe.C <yingjoe.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Howard Chen <ibanezchen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hongzhou.Yang
<hongzhou.yang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Flora Fu, MediaTek
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Eddie Huang <eddie.huang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 LSI Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Huawei Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2014 FUKAUMI Naoki <naobsd@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Actions Semi Inc. Author: David Liu <liuwei@actions-semi.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Actions Semi Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Broadcom Author: Zi Shen Lim <zlim@broadcom.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2013-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Samsung Electronics, Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 ARM Ltd
Copyright (c) 2013, Toradex AG. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Stephen Warren
Copyright (c) 2013, Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2013, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013, Atmel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2013, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, 2014 Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2013 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa at gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Sharavn kumar <shravan.k@phytec.in>, Phytec
Copyright (c) 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Mateusz Krawczuk
<m.krawczuk@partner.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrzej Hajda
<a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013 Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2013 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Linaro Ltd. Author: Thomas Abraham <thomas.ab@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Juergen Beisert <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2013 Josh Cartwright <joshc@eso.teric.us>
Copyright (c) 2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@imgtec.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Hardkernel Co., Ltd. https://www.hardkernel.com
Copyright (c) 2013 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2013 Alex Ling <kasimling@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012-2014,2018,2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012, Atmel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2012, Altera Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2012 National Instruments
Copyright (c) 2012 Linutronix GmbH Author: Richard Weinberger <richard@nod.at>
Copyright (c) 2012 Linutronix GmbH
Copyright (c) 2012 Linaro Ltd https://www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Jan Weitzel <j.weitzel@phytec.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012 Dongjin Kim <tobetter@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2018 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2011-2014, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Linaro Ltd. www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2011, AMK Drives & Controls Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2011 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010-2015, 2018-2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Linaro Ltd. www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2010, CompuLab, Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2010, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Tirumala R Marri
<tmarri@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Tanmay Inamdar
<tinamdar@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Serge Zaitsev
Copyright (c) 2010 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2010 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Micrel, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 LG Electronics Chan Jeong <chan.jeong@lge.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2010 Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il>, Orex Computed Radiography
Copyright (c) 2009-2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 NSN GmbH & Co KG <michael.lawnick.ext@nsn.com>
Copyright (c) 2009, Google Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Wind River Systems, Inc. Tom Rix <Tom.Rix@windriver.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2009 Robin Getz <rgetz@blackfin.uclinux.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Micrel Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2010, Intel Corporation and its suppliers.
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 PIKA Technologies Sean MacLennan
<smaclennan@pikatech.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it> Michael Lawnick
<michael.lawnick.ext@nsn.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright (c) 2008, Michael Trimarchi <trimarchimichael@yahoo.it> All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Michael Trimarchi <trimarchimichael@yahoo.it>
Copyright (c) 2008, Excito Elektronik i Skåne AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Excito Elektronik i Skåne AB
Copyright (c) 2008, Darius Augulis <augulis.darius@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2008 Pieter Voorthuijsen <pieter.voorthuijsen@prodrive.nl>
Copyright (c) 2008 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2008 Emcraft Systems. Sergei Poselenov, <sposelenov@emcraft.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 CSE Semaphore Belgium. by Laurent Pinchart <laurentp@cse-
semaphore.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008, Juniper Networks, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007, Stelian Pop <stelian.pop@leadtechdesign.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Texas Instruments
Copyright (c) 2007 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Lead Tech Design <www.leadtechdesign.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2007 Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright (c) 2006-2016, Matthew Conte All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
Copyright (c) 2006, Atmel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>,
David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp. Benjamin Herrenschmidt
<benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2006 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 Ian Molton
Copyright (c) 2006 Herbert Valerio Riedel <hvr@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2005-2012 Lode Vandevenne
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Lode Vandevenne
Copyright (c) 2005, Intec Automation Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Sergey Lyubka <valenok@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (c) 2004 Texas Instruments, Jian Zhang <jzhang@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Micron Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Google, Inc. Brian Kuschak <bkuschak@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, Cluster File Systems, Inc, info@clusterfs.com Written
by Alex Tomas <alex@clusterfs.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Kyle McMartin <kyle@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2003 Intracom S.A. by Pantelis Antoniou <panto@intracom.gr>
Copyright (c) 2003 - 2007 Francois Romieu <romieu@fr.zoreil.com>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Phillip
Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 Phillip Lougher
<phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Phillip Lougher
<phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002 ShuChen <shuchen@realtek.com.tw>
Copyright (c) 2002 Monta Vista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2002 Johann Deneux
Copyright (c) 2002 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au>
Copyright (c) 2001-2021, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2001 Thomas Gleixner (gleixner@autronix.de)
Copyright (c) 2001 Cliff Brake <cbrake@accelent.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Aaron Lehmann <aaronl@vitelus.com>
Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Ralf S. Engelschall <rse@engelschall.com>
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1998 by Michael Barr.
Copyright (c) 1997-2005 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 1996 Russell King.
Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993, 1994 The Regents of the University of
California. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) xxxx the Anonymous
Copyright (C) Sylver Bruneau <sylver.bruneau@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Sunplus Technology Co.
Copyright (C) Sunplus Tech/Tibbo Tech. Author: Dvorkin Dmitry
<dvorkin@tibbo.com>
Copyright (C) Sunplus Tech / Tibbo Tech. Author: Dvorkin Dmitry
<dvorkin@tibbo.com>
Copyright (C) Sunplus Ltd. Co. 2021
Copyright (C) Sunplus Co., Ltd. 2021
Copyright (C) Sunplus Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) Sun Microsystems 2008
Copyright (C) Stephen Warren
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2023 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2022 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2021 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2021 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2021 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2020 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gabriel
Fernandez <gabriel.fernandez@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2020
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019 Authors: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com> Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 Author: Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>
for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 Author: Christophe Kerello
<christophe.kerello@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Authors: Ludovic
Barre <ludovic.barre@st.com> for STMicroelectronics. Fabien Dessenne
<fabien.dessenne@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Philippe
Peurichard <philippe.peurichard@st.com>, Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com> for
STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Olivier
Bideau <olivier.bideau@st.com> for STMicroelectronics. Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gabriel
Fernandez <gabriel.fernandez@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gabriel
Fernandez <gabriel.fernandez@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com>.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Torgue
Alexandre <alexandre.torgue@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Ludovic
Barre <ludovic.barre@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2016 Author: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2013 Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com> for ST-Ericsson.
Copyright (C) SAN People (Pty) Ltd
Copyright (C) SAN People
Copyright (C) Russell King.
Copyright (C) Ronen Shitrit <rshitrit@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) Red Hat, Inc., 2009, 2010, 2011
Copyright (C) Protonic Holland Author: David Jander <david@protonic.nl>
Copyright (C) Phytec GmbH 2019-2020 - All Rights Reserved Author: Dom VOVARD
<dom.vovard@linrt.com>.
Copyright (C) Maxime Coquelin 2015 Author: Maxime Coquelin
<mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) Linux Networx.. ebiederman at lnxi dot com>
Copyright (C) Linaro Ltd 2019 - All Rights Reserved Author: Manivannan
Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) Javier Martinez Canillas <javier@dowhile0.org>
Copyright (C) Jan Lübbe, 2014
Copyright (C) Jan Luebbe <jlu@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2006 Authors: Artem
Bityutskiy (Битюцкий Артём) Thomas Gleixner Frank Haverkamp Oliver Lohmann
Andreas Arnez
Copyright (C) Harald Geyer <harald@ccbib.org> by Jagan Teki <jteki@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) Google LLC, 2018
Copyright (C) Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. 2006. Author: Jason
Jin<Jason.jin@freescale.com> Zhang Wei<wei.zhang@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) Archway Digital Solutions.
Copyright (C) Amit Shah <amit.shah@redhat.com>, 2009, 2010, 2011
Copyright (C) Akinobu Mita
Copyright (C) Abilis Systems 2013
Copyright (C) 2023, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2023 chargebyte GmbH
Copyright (C) 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2023 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2023 Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2023 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2023 Nuvoton Technology Corp. Author: Shan-Chun Hung
<schung@nuvoton.com> Jacky huang <ychuang3@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (C) 2023 Nuvoton Technologies. Author: Chi-Fen Li <cfli0@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (C) 2023 Nuvoton Technologies.
Copyright (C) 2023 Michael Kopfensteiner, VAHLE Automation GmbH
Copyright (C) 2023 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2023 Marantec electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2023 Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2023 Linaro Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2023 Leonard Göhrs, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2023 Keguang Zhang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2023 Jó Ágila Bitsch <jgilab@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2023 Jisheng Zhang <jszhang@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2023 In-Circuit GmbH
Copyright (C) 2023 Drew Fustini <dfustini@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2023 DH electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2023 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2023 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright (C) 2022-2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2022-2023 Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2022-2023 Robert Nelson, BeagleBoard.org Foundation
Copyright (C) 2022-2023 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited
Copyright (C) 2022, Unisoc Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2022, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2022 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 StarFive Technology Co., Ltd. Author: Walker Chen
<walker.chen@starfivetech.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 StarFive Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 StarFive Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2022 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Schneider-Electric
Copyright (C) 2022 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 SHIMAMOTO Takayoshi <takayoshi.shimamoto.360@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Robert Nelson, BeagleBoard.org Foundation
Copyright (C) 2022 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2022 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yongqiang Niu
<yongqiang.niu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hui Liu <hui.liu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Allen-KH Cheng <allen-
kh.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Matthias Fend <matthias.fend@emfend.at>
Copyright (C) 2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Luca Weiss <luca.weiss@fairphone.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2022 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2022 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Kernkonzept GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2022 Jisheng Zhang <jszhang@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Jason Kridner, BeagleBoard.org Foundation
Copyright (C) 2022 Holger Assmann <h.assmann@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Glider bv
Copyright (C) 2022 Emil Renner Berthing <kernel@esmil.dk>
Copyright (C) 2022 Daniel Brát
Copyright (C) 2022 DENX Software Engineering GmbH, Philip Oberfichtner
<pro@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Clément Péron <peron.clem@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 BayLibre SAS Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com> Bernhard
Rosenkränzer <bero@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Avnet Embedded GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2022 Ahmad Fatoum
Copyright (C) 2022 Adrian Negreanu
Copyright (C) 2022 - Conor Dooley <conor.dooley@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 - 2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2022 - 2023 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2021-2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 - Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@aries-embedded.de>
Copyright (C) 2021, WolfVision GmbH Author: Michael Riesch
<michael.riesch@wolfvision.net>
Copyright (C) 2021, Unisoc Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021, Ahmad Fatoum
Copyright (C) 2021 emtrion GmbH Author: Frank Erdrich
<frank.erdrich@emtrion.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 emtrion GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 YADRO
Copyright (C) 2021 Y Soft Corporation, a.s.
Copyright (C) 2021 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Tobias Schramm <t.schramm@manjaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021 Sunplus Technology Co.
Copyright (C) 2021 Stephan Gerhold
Copyright (C) 2021 StarFive Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2021 Sebastian Reichel
Copyright (C) 2021 Sartura Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Sancloud Ltd
Copyright (C) 2021 SanCloud Ltd
Copyright (C) 2021 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 STMicroelectronics Author: Alain Volmat <avolmat@me.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Russell King <rmk@armlinux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2021 Rouven Czerwinski, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.rock-chips.com
Copyright (C) 2021 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2021 Purism SPC <kernel@puri.sm>
Copyright (C) 2021 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Yunus Bas <y.bas@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Alexander Bauer
<a.bauer@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 PHYTEC America, LLC - https://www.phytec.com Author: Matt
McKee <mmckee@phytec.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Nuvoton Technologies. Author: Tomer Maimon
<tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2021 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright (C) 2021 Michael Rasmussen <mir@bang-olufsen.dk>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Authors: Sam.Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com> Frank
Wunderlich <frank-w@public-files.de> Daniel Golle <daniel@makrotopia.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Seiya Wang <seiya.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam.Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Guodong Liu <Guodong.Liu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2021 Marek Czerski <m.czerski@ap-tech.pl>
Copyright (C) 2021 Marcelo Politzer <marcelo.politzer@cartesi.io>
Copyright (C) 2021 Linaro Ltd. Author: Sam Protsenko
<semen.protsenko@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Ivan Uvarov <i.uvarov@cognitivepilot.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Heiko Thiery <heiko.thiery@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Gwenhael Goavec-Merou <gwenhael.goavec-merou@trabucayre.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Glider bv
Copyright (C) 2021 GE Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Fabio Estevam <festevam@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Emil Renner Berthing <kernel@esmil.dk>
Copyright (C) 2021 Dillon Min <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Daniel Mack
Copyright (C) 2021 DH electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 Corentin Labbe <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Chukun Pan <amadeus@jmu.edu.cn>
Copyright (C) 2021 BSH Hausgeraete GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2021 Author(s): Jesse Taube <Mr.Bossman075@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Alvin Šipraga <alsi@bang-olufsen.dk>
Copyright (C) 2021 Alibaba Group Holding Limited.
Copyright (C) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Microchip Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 - Aldec
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Matthew Hagan <mnhagan88@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Cristian Ciocaltea <cristian.ciocaltea@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020, Richtek Technology Corp. Author: ChiYuan Huang
<cy_huang@richtek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 huangzhenwei@allwinnertech.com
Copyright (C) 2020 Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2020 Yu-Tung Chang <mtwget@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Y Soft Corporation, a.s.
Copyright (C) 2020 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2020 Vasily khoruzhick <anarsoul@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Peter Ujfalusi
<peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2020 Stephan Gerhold
Copyright (C) 2020 SiFive, Inc. Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2020 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Sean Anderson <seanga2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Sartura Ltd. Author: Luka Kovacic <luka.kovacic@sartura.hr>
Copyright (C) 2020 Sartura Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2020 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH -
https://www.renesas.com/eu/en/
Copyright (C) 2020 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2020 Purism SPC <kernel@puri.sm>
Copyright (C) 2020 Protonic Holland
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Ulrich Oelmann <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2020 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Yunus Bas <y.bas@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Jens Lang <J.Lang@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Ondrej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Olimex Ltd. Author: Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan@olimex.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Oleksij Rempel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2020 Nicolas Saenz Julienne <nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 National Instruments Corporation Author: Michael Auchter
<michael.auchter@ni.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2020 Michael Tretter <m.tretter@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Seiya Wang <seiya.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Matteo Scordino <matteo@elimo.io>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Martijn Braam <martijn@brixit.nl>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marcin Sloniewski <marcin.sloniewski@gmail.com>.
Copyright (C) 2020 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (C) 2020 MOXA Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2020 Lucas Stach <dev@lynxeye.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linumiz Author: Parthiban Nallathambi <parthiban@linumiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Kamstrup A/S Author: Bruno Thomsen <bruno.thomsen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Kalray Inc., Clément Léger
Copyright (C) 2020 Kalray Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Jayantajit Gogoi <jayanta.gogoi525@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation. Lei Chuanhua <Chuanhua.lei@intel.com> Zhu
Yixin <Yixin.zhu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2020 GARDENA GmbH
Copyright (C) 2020 FORTH-ICS/CARV Nick Kossifidis <mick@ics.forth.gr>
Copyright (C) 2020 Eugeniu Rosca <rosca.eugeniu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Du Huanpeng <u74147@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (C) 2020 Compass Electronics Group, LLC
Copyright (C) 2020 Clément Péron <peron.clem@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Bytedance.
Copyright (C) 2020 BAIKAL ELECTRONICS, JSC
Copyright (C) 2020 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 André Hentschel <nerv@dawncrow.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2020 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2020 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019-present Lenovo
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Bosch Thermotechnik GmbH, Matthias Winker
<matthias.winker@bosch.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-20 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2019-20 Sean Anderson <seanga2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2019, Webasto SE Author: Johannes Eigner
<johannes.eigner@webasto.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Webasto SE
Copyright (C) 2019, Unisoc Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, Unisoc Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2019, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2019, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019, Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix Author(s): Patrice Chotard,
<patrice.chotard@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2019 reMarkable AS - http://www.remarkable.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2019 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Trent Piepho <tpiepho@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Peter Ujfalusi
<peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2019 Telus
Copyright (C) 2019 Sunil Mohan Adapa <sunil@medhas.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Stephan Gerhold
Copyright (C) 2019 SiFive, Inc. Wesley Terpstra Paul Walmsley Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2019 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2019 Sean Anderson <seanga2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Rouven Czerwinski, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2019 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2019 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH, Teresa Remmet <t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <m.tretter@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Bastian Krause <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Stefan Riedmueller
<s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Daniel Schultz
<d.schultz@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Stefan Riedmueller
<s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Ondřej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Oleksij Rempel, Pengutronix <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Oleksij Rempel - Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2019 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2019 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Oceanic Systems (UK) Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2019 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright (C) 2019 Methode Electronics
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Andy Teng <andy.teng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Marek Behún <kabel@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2019 Logic PD, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2019 Karl Palsson <karlp@tweak.net.au>
Copyright (C) 2019 Kalray, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Kalray Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Jacek Anaszewski <jacek.anaszewski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Igor Pecovnik <igor@armbian.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2019 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2019 Hao Dong <halbertdong@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Globalscale technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2019 Georgii Staroselskii <georgiii.staroselskii@emlid.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Georgii Staroselskii <georgii.staroselskii@emlid.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Du Huanpeng <u74147@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Corentin LABBE <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Clément Péron <peron.clem@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Bruno Thomsen <bruno.thomsen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Bootlin Author: Paul Kocialkowski
<paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Author(s): Giulio Benetti
<giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Antmicro <www.antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 André Hentschel <nerv@dawncrow.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Amit Singh Tomar <amittomer25@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Amarula Solutions B.V. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2019 Ahmad Fatoum - Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2019 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2023 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Wesley Terpstra
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc. Wesley Terpstra Paul Walmsley Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc. Wesley Terpstra Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2018,2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2018, Tuomas Tynkkynen <tuomas.tynkkynen@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2018, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Fabrice
Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2018, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Fabrice
Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2018, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Patrice
Chotard, <patrice.chotard@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2018, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2018, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018, Bin Meng <bmeng.cn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 exceet electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 emtrion GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 embedded brains GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovations Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovation Author: Andrey Smirnov
<andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
Copyright (C) 2018 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG <http://global.wago.com>
Author: Oleg Karfich <oleg.karfich@wago.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Vasily Khoruzhick <anarsoul@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Toradex AG
Copyright (C) 2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I
<kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 SolidRun ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix, and individual contributors
Copyright (C) 2018 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 STMicroelectronics Author(s): Amelie Delaunay
<amelie.delaunay@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2018 Robert Bosch Power Tools GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics Europe Limited
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics
Copyright (C) 2018 Rene Kjellerup <rk.katana.steel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 ROHM Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Roland Hieber <r.hieber@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <m.tretter@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Stefan Riedmueller
<s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Enrico Scholz
<enrico.scholz@sigma-chemnitz.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik Author: Christian Hemp <c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Overkiz SAS
Copyright (C) 2018 Olimex Ltd. Author: Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan@olimex.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Octavo Systems LLC - https://www.octavosystems.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 O.S. Systems Software LTDA.
Copyright (C) 2018 Nuvoton Technologies tali.perry@nuvoton.com
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology Inc, Codrin Ciubotariu
<codrin.ciubotariu@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Masahiro Yamada <yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2018 Martin Ayotte <martinayotte@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MOXA Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Logic PD, Inc - https://www.logicpd.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Laird, 2018 Ben Whitten <ben.whitten@lairdtech.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Laird
Copyright (C) 2018 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Kalray Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jon Nettleton <jon@solid-run.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jagan Teki <jagan@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2018 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Hao Zhang <hao5781286@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Exceet Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2018 EETS GmbH - http://www.eets.ch/
Copyright (C) 2018 Diego Rondini <diego.rondini@kynetics.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Daniel Mack
Copyright (C) 2018 DENX Software Engineering GmbH, Niel Fourie <lusus@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 DENX Software Engineering GmbH, Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Cryptera A/S
Copyright (C) 2018 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Christian Hemp
Copyright (C) 2018 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2018 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 BTicino
Copyright (C) 2018 Anup Patel <anup@brainfault.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Amarula Solutions B.V. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright (C) 2018 Amarula Solutions Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Aleksandr Aleksandrov <aleksandr.aleksandrov@emlid.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s):
Philippe Cornu <philippe.cornu@st.com> for STMicroelectronics. Yannick Fertre
<yannick.fertre@st.com> for STMicroelectronics. Ahmad Fatoum
<a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Overkiz SAS Author: Mickael Gardet
<m.gardet@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Patrice
Chotard, <patrice.chotard@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 exceet electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
Copyright (C) 2017 Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>
Copyright (C) 2017 Touchless Biometric Systems AG Tomas Novotny
<tomas@novotny.cz>
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2017 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2017 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2017 Raspberry Pi Trading Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2017 Priit Laes <plaes@plaes.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Uwe Kleine-König <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Bastian Stender <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Daniel Schultz
<d.schultz@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 NutsBoard.Org
Copyright (C) 2017 NextThing Co
Copyright (C) 2017 NXP
Copyright (C) 2017 Moxa Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Milo Kim <woogyom.kim@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Microchip/Atmel, 2017 Wenyou Yang <wenyou.yang@microchip.com>
2017 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Masahiro Yamada <yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Marcus Cooper <codekipper@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 MOXA Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Luxul Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jelle van der Waa <jelle@vdwaa.nl>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jagan Teki <jteki@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jagan Teki <jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Impinj, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Impinj
Copyright (C) 2017 Ideas on Board <kieran.bingham@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Hamster Tian <haotia@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2017 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Free Electrons, Quentin Schulz <quentin.schulz@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2017 Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Eric Nelson
Copyright (C) 2017 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2017 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Centrum Embedded Systems, Jia-Bin Huang <jb@ces.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2017 Broadcom Author: Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Axentia Technologies AB
Copyright (C) 2017 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2017 Atlas Copco Industrial Technique
Copyright (C) 2017 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Antony Antony <antony@phenome.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Andes Technology Corporation Rick Chen, Andes Technology
Corporation <rick@andestech.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Andes Technology Chih-Mao Chen <cmchen@andestech.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Amarula Solutions B.V. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2017 Alexander Kurz <akurz@blala.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Alexander Graf <agraf@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Aditya Prayoga <aditya@kobol.io>
Copyright (C) 2016-2021, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com> Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Rockchip Electronic Co.,Ltd
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2014 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2016, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Vikas
Manocha, <vikas.manocha@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2016, Mario Lange <mario_lange@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2016, LG Electronics
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016, 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de> Author: Stefan Riedmueller <s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016, 2017 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2016 Uwe Kleine-König <uwe@kleine-koenig.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Toradex AG
Copyright (C) 2016 Tomas Hlavacek <tmshlvkc@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 The Android Open Source Project
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Sergio Prado (sergio.prado@e-labworks.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Savoir-Faire Linux Author: Sebastien Bourdelin
<sebastien.bourdelin@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics Author: Gabriel Fernandez for
STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics 2016
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Patrice Chotard
<patrice.chotard@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Roger Shimizu <rogershimizu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics
Copyright (C) 2016 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rafał Miłecki <rafal.milecki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Raashid Muhammed <raashidmuhammed@zilogic.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Philippe Leduc
Copyright (C) 2016 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <p.zabel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Pengutronix, Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Paul Kocialkowski <contact@paulk.fr>
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik Author: Christian Hemp <c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu@nigauri.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 NextThing Co.
Copyright (C) 2016 Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 NXP Semiconductors. Author: Fabio Estevam
<fabio.estevam@nxp.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2016 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Milo Kim <woogyom.kim@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Michael Heimpold <mhei@heimpold.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2016 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jamie Lentin <jm@lentin.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2016 James Pettigrew <james@innovum.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jagan Teki <jteki@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Imagination Technologies
Copyright (C) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2016 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2016 Garz & Fricke GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2016 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2016 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Eckelmann AG.
Copyright (C) 2016 Derald D. Woods <woods.technical@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 CogentEmbedded Inc Author: Andrey Gusakov
<andrey.gusakov@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author : Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel, 2016 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel,
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel Corporation, Songjun Wu <songjun.wu@atmel.com>, Nicolas
Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2016 Ash Hughes <ashley.hughes@blueyonder.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2016 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright (C) 2016 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2016 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 DH electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Y Soft Corporation, a.s.
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Overkiz SAS Author: Mickael Gardet
<m.gardet@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com> Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Roger Shimizu <rogershimizu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 I2SE GmbH <info@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Paul Kocialkowski <contact@paulk.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015, Sebastian Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jacek Anaszewski
<j.anaszewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Inverse Path Andrej Rosano <andrej@inversepath.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015, Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015, Andrew Andrianov <andrew@ncrmnt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Roger Shimizu <rogershimizu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 by Sang Engineering
Copyright (C) 2015 by Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Wadim Egorov <w.egorovphytec.de> PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 Wadim Egorov <w.egorov@phytec.de> PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG <http://global.wago.com>
Author: Oleg Karfich <oleg.karfich@wago.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG <http://global.wago.com>
Author: Heinrich Toews <heinrich.toews@wago.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 VanguardiaSur - www.vanguardiasur.com.ar
Copyright (C) 2015 Toby Churchill - http://www.toby-churchill.com/
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Stefan Agner
Copyright (C) 2015 Srinivas Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Seagate
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Sakari Ailus
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics R&D Limited
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics Limited. Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Maxime Coquelin
<maxime.coquelin@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2015 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Rabeeh Khoury <rabeeh@solid-run.com> Russell King
Copyright (C) 2015 Rabeeh Khoury <rabeeh@solid-run.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <p.zabel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Stefan Christ
<s.christ@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH, Author: Daniel Schultz
<d.schultz@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de> Teresa Remmet <t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 PHYTEC America, LLC
Copyright (C) 2015 Overkiz SAS Author: Antoine Aubert <a.aubert@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Overkiz SAS
Copyright (C) 2015 Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Nikita Yushchenko, CogentEmbedded, Inc
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Maxime Coquelin
Copyright (C) 2015 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2015 Markus Reichl
Copyright (C) 2015 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Juergen Borleis <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jens Kuske <jenskuske@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jan Luebbe <jluebbe@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jablotron s.r.o. -- https://www.jablotron.com/ Author:
Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@jablotron.cz>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2015 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Cyrille Pitchen <cyrille.pitchen@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 CompuLab, Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/
Copyright (C) 2015 CompuLab Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/ Author: Ilya
Ledvich <ilya@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2015 CompuLab Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/ Author: Dmitry
Lifshitz <lifshitz@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Christoph Junghans <ottxor@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2015 Boris Barbulovski <bbarbulovski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Benjamin Cama <benoar@dolka.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
2020 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Josh Wu <josh.wu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Alexandre Belloni <alexandre.Belloni@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel Corporation, Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Ash Charles, Gumstix, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Ash Charles, Gumstix Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrey Smirnov <andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrey Gusakov, CogentEmbedded, Inc
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrea Merello <adnrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Overkiz SAS Author: Antoine Aubert
<a.aubert@overkiz.com> Gaël Portay <g.portay@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Overkiz SAS
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de> Teresa Remmet <t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-18 H. Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-15 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2014--2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014,2015 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, NVIDIA CORPORATION.
Copyright (C) 2014, Masahiro Yamada <yamada.m@jp.panasonic.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Benoit Masson <yahoo@perenite.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, Arnaud EBALARD <arno@natisbad.org>
Copyright (C) 2014, 2016 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 by Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2014 Wolfram Sang, Sang Engineering <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG <http://global.wago.com>
Author: Heinrich Toews <heinrich.toews@wago.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Uwe Kleine-Koenig <uwe@kleine-koenig.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Ulrich Hecht
Copyright (C) 2014 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014 Teresa Gámez <t.gamez@phytec.de> Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014 Teresa Gámez <t.gamez@phytec.de> PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014 Steffen Trumtrar, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2014 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Simon Guinot <simon.guinot@sequanux.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics – All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics R&D Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Limited. Author: Peter Griffin
<peter.griffin@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Limited. Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics -- All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Peter Griffin
<peter.griffin@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2014 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2014 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2014 Ricoh Electronic Devices Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Michael S. Tsirkin <mst@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Raphaël Poggi
Copyright (C) 2014 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Rabeeh Khoury (rabeeh@solid-run.com) Russell King
Copyright (C) 2014 Paradox Innovation Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Owen Kirby <osk@exegin.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 NovaTech LLC - https://www.novatechweb.com
Copyright (C) 2014 Microchip Alexandre Belloni <alexandre.belloni@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2014 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Marek Belisko <marek@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Javier Martinez Canillas <javier@dowhile0.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Huawei Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 H. Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Gumstix, Inc. - https://www.gumstix.com/
Copyright (C) 2014 Grant Hernandez <grant.h.hernandez@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2014 Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright (C) 2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2014 Florian Vaussard, EPFL Mobots group
Copyright (C) 2014 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2014 Evgeni Dobrev <evgeni@studio-punkt.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Eric Bénard - Eukréa Electromatique
Copyright (C) 2014 Eric Bénard <eric@eukrea.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Enric Balletbo i Serra <eballetbo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 David Gibson <david@gibson.dropbear.id.au>
Copyright (C) 2014 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Claudio Leite <leitec@staticky.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritzc@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Carlo Caione
Copyright (C) 2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Beniamino Galvani <b.galvani@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel, 2014 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com> 2015
Gregory CLEMENT <gregory.clement@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel, 2014 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel, 2014 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel Corporation, Bo Shen <voice.shen@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2014 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov at gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Antoine Ténart <antoine.tenart@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Andrey Panov <rockford@yandex.ru>
Copyright (C) 2014 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2014 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 ARM Ltd. Author: Catalin Marinas <catalin.marinas@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2017 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2015 CompuLab Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013-2016, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Altera Corporation, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Ideas on Board
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014,2016 Michael Heimpold <mhei@heimpold.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Renesas Electronics Europe Ltd. Author: Guennadi
Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Aaro Koskinen <aaro.koskinen@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2013-15 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013-14 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2013, LG Electronics, Kyungsik Lee <kyungsik.lee@lge.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright (C) 2013, Arnaud EBALARD <arno@natisbad.org>
Copyright (C) 2013, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013, Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2015 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2013 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Contact:
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sirius Electronic Systems
Copyright (C) 2013 Simon Horman
Copyright (C) 2013 Simon Baatz <gmbnomis@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix, <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Vivek Gautam
<gautam.vivek@samsung.com> Vikas Sajjan <vikas.sajjan@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Stuart Menefy
<stuart.menefy@st.com> Author: Srinivas Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2013 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2013 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (C) 2013 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2013 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Newflow Ltd - http://www.newflow.co.uk/
Copyright (C) 2013 MundoReader S.L.
Copyright (C) 2013 Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Michael Burkey Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Michael Burkey
Copyright (C) 2013 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Maxime Hadjinlian <maxime.hadjinlian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marvell Ezequiel Garcia <ezequiel.garcia@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2013 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marek Belisko <marek@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2013 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 LSI
Copyright (C) 2013 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Kosagi http://www.kosagi.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Jonas Jensen <jonas.jensen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jean-Jacques Hiblot <jjhiblot@traphandler.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jan Luebbe <jlu@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation Author: Tim Chen
<tim.c.chen@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 ISEE 2007 SL - http://www.isee.biz/
Copyright (C) 2013 ISEE 2007 SL - http://www.isee.biz
Copyright (C) 2013 Hubert Feurstein <h.feurstein@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Horms Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2013 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Du Huanpeng <u74147@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Douglas Gilbert <dgilbert@interlog.com>, Robert Nelson
<robertcnelson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Douglas Gilbert <dgilbert@interlog.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Daniel Tang <tangrs@tangrs.id.au>
Copyright (C) 2013 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>  Enrico Scholz,
sponsored by Phytec
Copyright (C) 2013 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Chanho Min <chanho.min@lge.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Boris BREZILLON <b.brezillon@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Beniamino Galvani <b.galvani@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel, 2013 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel, 2013 Josh Wu <josh.wu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel Corporation Bo Shen <voice.shen@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Andre Heider
Copyright (C) 2013 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Alexander Aring <aar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2013 Adam Porter <porter.adam@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 - Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it> HCE Engineering
Copyright (C) 2012-2022 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2012-2016, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Pengutronix, Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Boris BREZILLON <b.brezillon@overkiz.com> 2014-2015 Gaël
PORTAY <g.portay@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Linaro Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012,2013 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright (C) 2012, by Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 egnite GmbH <info@egnite.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 by Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2012 by Wolfram Sang <w.sang@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 by Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012 Wolfram Sang <w.sang@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Variscite Ltd. - https://www.variscite.com
Copyright (C) 2012 Tony Prisk <linux@prisktech.co.nz>
Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Teresa Gámez <t.gamez@phytec.de>, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 Telit, 2012 Fabio Porcedda <fabio.porcedda@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2012 Steffen Trumtrar, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012 Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics, R. Chandrasekar <rcsekar@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Electronics Corp. Author: Guennadi Liakhovetski
<g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2012 Pengutronix Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Pantelis Antoniou <panto@antoniou-consulting.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Oleksandr Tymoshenko <gonzo@freebsd.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2012 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com> on behalf of DENX
Software Engineering GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 Linaro Ltd. Author: Dong Aisheng <dong.aisheng@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2012 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <planioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Javier Martinez Canillas <javier@dowhile0.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jan Luebbe, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012 Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jamie Lentin
Copyright (C) 2012 Horms Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Florian Vaussard, EPFL Mobots group
Copyright (C) 2012 Enric Balletbo i Serra <eballetbo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2012 DENX Software Engineering Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Christian Kapeller <christian.kapeller@cmotion.eu>
Copyright (C) 2012 Bertrand Achard (nvram access fixes)
Copyright (C) 2012 Atmel, 2012 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Atmel, 2012 Hong Xu <hong.xu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com> All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Altera <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Alex Barcelo <abarcelo@ac.upc.edu>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2012 AK signal Brno a.s. 2012 Jiri Prchal
<jiri.prchal@aksignal.cz>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Sylwester
Nawrocki <s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 ASIX
Copyright (C) 2011-2012, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 NVIDIA Corporation <www.nvidia.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD
Copyright (C) 2011, Texas Instruments, Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011, ChaN, all right reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2015 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2011 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2011 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix <w.sang@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Wolfram Sang <w.sang@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Wind River Systems, written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Weinmann Medical GmbH Author: Nikolaus Voss
<n.voss@weinmann.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2011 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2011 Sascha Hauer
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electrnoics Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2011 Rick Bronson
Copyright (C) 2011 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH - http://www.phytec.de/ Juergen Kilb
<j.kilb@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com> on behalf of DENX
Software Engineering GmbH
Copyright (C) 2011 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marc Reilly <marc@cpdesign.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marc Kleine-Budde, Pengutronix <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2011 Kevin Wolf <kwolf@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Kees Cook <keescook@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Ilya Yanok, EmCraft Systems
Copyright (C) 2011 Hubert Feurstein <h.feurstein@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Colin Leitner <colin.leitner@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Author: Jan Weitzel <j.weitzel@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>, 2012
Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>, 2011
Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Alexander Aring <a.aring@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Alexander Aring <a.aring@phytec.de
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2014 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jonas Bonn <jonas@southpole.se> et al.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jonas Bonn <jonas@southpole.se>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jaiganesh Narayanan <jnarayanan@atheros.com>
Copyright (C) 2010,2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2010, Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2010, Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2016 Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 by Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 The Android Open Source Project All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 The Android Open Source Project
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Author: Felipe Balbi <balbi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Simon Guinot <sguinot@lacie.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 SecretLab Grant Likely <grant@secretlab.ca> John Bonesio
<bones@secretlab.ca>
Copyright (C) 2010 Sascha Hauer <sha@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <viresh.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Roman Yeryomin <roman@advem.lv>
Copyright (C) 2010 Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Matthias Kaehlcke <matthias@kaehlcke.net>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marco Stornelli <marco.stornelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marc Kleine-Budde, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2010 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix <jbe@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Intel Corporation <tony.luck@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Giel van Schijndel <me@mortis.eu>
Copyright (C) 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Dirk Behme <dirk.behme@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2010 Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2010 B Labs Ltd, http://l4dev.org Author: Alexey Zaytsev
<alexey.zaytsev@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 B Labs Ltd Author: Alexey Zaytsev <alexey.zaytsev@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Antti Seppälä <a.seppala@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009...2011 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Amit Kucheria <amit.kucheria@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2016 Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011 Amit Shah <amit.shah@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 emlix GmbH, Oskar Schirmer <oskar@scara.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 by Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009 by Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
(mina86@mina86.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 by Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 by Lothar Wassmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 by Jan Weitzel Phytec Messtechnik GmbH <armlinux@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Sanjeev
Premi <premi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2009 Simon Guinot <sguinot@lacie.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Semihalf
Copyright (C) 2009 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
(mina86@mina86.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
<m.nazarewicz@samsung.com> All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <viresh.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 ST Micoelectronics
Copyright (C) 2009 Provigent Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia
Copyright (C) 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Matthias Kaehlcke <matthias@kaehlcke.net>
Copyright (C) 2009 Matthias Fuchs
Copyright (C) 2009 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Ivo Clarysse <ivo.clarysse@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Guennadi Liakhovetski, DENX Software Engineering,
<lg@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Extreme Engineering Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Carlo Caione <carlo@carlocaione.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Alessandro Rubini
Copyright (C) 2009 Albin Tonnerre, Free Electrons <albin.tonnerre@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Alberto Panizzo <maramaopercheseimorto@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 The GameCube Linux Team
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Avionic Design GmbH
Copyright (C) 2008,2009 Albert Herranz
Copyright (C) 2008, Paulius Zaleckas <paulius.zaleckas@teltonika.lt>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010 Embecosm Limited
Copyright (C) 2008 by Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2008 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 Wind River Systems, written by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2008 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix Linux SPI Framework
Copyright (C) 2008 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2008 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2008 Ronetix Ilko Iliev (www.ronetix.at)
Copyright (C) 2008 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Contact: Felipe Balbi
<felipe.balbi@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 Nir Tzachar <nir.tzachar@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2008 Martin Mueller <martinmm@pfump.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Intel Corp. Author: Sarah Sharp
Copyright (C) 2008 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 Ingenic Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Extreme Engineering Solutions, Inc. Freescale Semiconductor,
Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2008 Darius Augulis <darius.augulis at teltonika.lt>
Copyright (C) 2008 Alexey Kopytko <alexey@kopytko.ru>
Copyright (C) 2008 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 The GameCube Linux Team
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 SMSC
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Avionic Design Development GmbH
Copyright (C) 2007,2008,2009 Albert Herranz
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007 by Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2007 Ville Syrjala <syrjala@sci.fi>
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Sergey Kubushyn <ksi@koi8.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 Semihalf Marian Balakowicz <m8@semihalf.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix 2009 Marc Kleine-Budde
<mkl@pengutronix.de> 2009 Eric Benard <eric@eukrea.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix 2009 Marc Kleine-Budde
<mkl@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2007 STMicroelectronics Pvt. Ltd. Author: Sachin Verma
<sachin.verma@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 RightHand Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2007 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell Internation Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2007 Eurek srl Author: Claudio Lanconelli
<lanconelli.claudio@eptar.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007 Andrew Victor
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2012 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006-2015 Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Pengutronix Sascha Hauer, Juergen Beisert, Wolfram Sang
<kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006,2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2009 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 University of Szeged, Hungary
Copyright (C) 2006 by SAN People
Copyright (C) 2006 by Hans Edgington <hans@edgington.nl>
Copyright (C) 2006 Tolunay Orkun <listmember@orkun.us>
Copyright (C) 2006 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Pengutronix Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de> Robert
Schwebel <r.schwebel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 Nokia Corporation Author: Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Micron Technology Inc. Author: Shahrom Sharif-Kashani
Copyright (C) 2006 Kumar Gala <galak@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Hans Verkuil (hverkuil@xs4all.nl)
Copyright (C) 2006 FON Technology, SL.
Copyright (C) 2006 Dominic Rath <Dominic.Rath@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2006 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Anthony Liguori <anthony@codemonkey.ws>
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 by Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-06 Tower Technologies Author: Alessandro Zummo
<a.zummo@towertech.it>
Copyright (C) 2005, Intec Automation Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 by Ivan Kokshaysky
Copyright (C) 2005 by HP Labs
Copyright (C) 2005 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2005 Torsten Koschorrek <koschorrek at synertronixx.de
Copyright (C) 2005 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Christoph Lameter
Copyright (C) 2005 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2005 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Juergen Kilb, H. Klaholz
<armlinux@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Matthias Blaschke <blaschke at synertronixx.de
Copyright (C) 2005 Marc Singer
Copyright (C) 2005 James Chapman
Copyright (C) 2005 Ivan Kokshaysky
Copyright (C) 2005 Intel Co. Contributed by Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>.
Copyright (C) 2005 HP Labs
Copyright (C) 2005 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2004-2013 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2012 Charles Cazabon <charlesc-memtester@pyropus.ca>
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Charles Cazabon <charlesc-memtester@pyropus.ca>
Copyright (C) 2004-2008,2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 IBM, John Stultz (johnstul@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Cory T. Tusar, Videon Central, Inc., <ctusar@videon-
central.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 by Thomas Rathbone, HP Labs
Copyright (C) 2004 by Thomas Rathbone
Copyright (C) 2004 by Sameer Dekate <sdekate@arubanetworks.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Thomas Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2004 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2004 Rick Bronson, Andrew Victor <andrew@sanpeople.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Ray Lehtiniemi
Copyright (C) 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004 Jeff Lackey.
Copyright (C) 2004 Jean-Frederic Clere.
Copyright (C) 2004 Ian Campbell.
Copyright (C) 2004 Google, Inc. (Ken Harrenstien)
Copyright (C) 2004 Ed Okerson
Copyright (C) 2004 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2009 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2007 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 SAN People (Pty) Ltd
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 David Hollis <dhollis@davehollis.com>
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 Rick Bronson
Copyright (C) 2003 Motorola,Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 Motorola Modified by Xianghua Xiao(x.xiao@motorola.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 Matjaz Breskvar <phoenix@bsemi.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Kai-Uwe Bloem, Auerswald GmbH & Co KG, <linux-
development@auerswald.de>
Copyright (C) 2003 Hewlett-Packard
Copyright (C) 2003 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003 Cirrus Logic, Inc
Copyright (C) 2003 Bernardo Innocenti <bernie@develer.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Atheros Communications, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Arabella Software Ltd. Yuli Barcohen <yuli@arabellasw.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Al Borchers (alborchers@steinerpoint.com)
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Roman Zippel <zippel@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Romain Lievin <roms@tilp.info>
Copyright (C) 2002 rabeeh@galileo.co.il
Copyright (C) 2002 by Concurrent Computer Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002 Thomas Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2002 Roman Zippel <zippel@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 2002 Motorola GSG-China 2009 Marc Kleine-Budde, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2002 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002 James Simmons <jsimmons@users.sf.net>
Copyright (C) 2002 Broadcom, Inc. memcpy/copy_user author: Mark Vandevoorde
Copyright (C) 2001-2012 Charles Cazabon.
Copyright (C) 2001, Software Center, Motorola China.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2004 MIPS Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Standard Microsystems Corporation (SMSC) Developed by Simple
Network Magic Corporation (SNMC)
Copyright (C) 2001 Rusty Russell.
Copyright (C) 2001 Rusty Russell, 2002 Rusty Russell IBM.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2001 Richard Zidlicky <rz@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000-2010 Steven J. Hill <sjhill@realitydiluted.com> David
Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2005 by David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Transmeta Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000,2001 Larry Doolittle <larry@doolittle.boa.org>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2004, 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Authors: Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Maciej W. Rozycki
<macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 07 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 by Lineo, Inc., and written by Erik Andersen
<andersen@lineo.com>, <andersee@debian.org>.
Copyright (C) 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@realitydiluted.com) 2002-2006 Thomas
Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@cotw.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Paul M. Antoine, 1996. Kevin D.
Kissell, kevink@mips.com and Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 2000 Philip Edelbrock <phil@stimpy.netroedge.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Peter Berger (pberger@brimson.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd
Copyright (C) 2000 Damjan Lampret
Copyright (C) 2000 Al Borchers (alborchers@steinerpoint.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2005 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2003 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 by Erik Andersen <andersen@codepoet.org>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> et al.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co. David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 01, 2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Walt Drummond <drummond@valinux.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 VA Linux Systems
Copyright (C) 1999 Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Magnus Damm <kieraypc01.p.y.kie.era.ericsson.se>
Copyright (C) 1999 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co. Contributed by David Mosberger
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>.
Copyright (C) 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co.
Copyright (C) 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 1999 Eric A. Thomas.
Copyright (C) 1999 Eric A. Thomas which in turn is:
Copyright (C) 1999 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Ben Williamson <benw@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2003 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999	Magnus Damm <kieraypc01.p.y.kie.era.ericsson.se>
Copyright (C) 1998, 99, 2000, 01, 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1998	Dan Malek <dmalek@jlc.net>
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1997 Sten Wang 1997-1998 DAVICOM Semiconductor,Inc. 2003 Weilun
Huang <weilun_huang@davicom.com.tw> 2003 <saschahauer@web.de>
Copyright (C) 1997 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1996-2012 Markus F.X.J. Oberhumer <markus@oberhumer.com>
Copyright (C) 1996-2005 Markus Franz Xaver Johannes Oberhumer All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1996-2002 Julian R Seward. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1996, 99, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 99 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 97, 98, 99, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999, 2001 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996 by Erik Stahlman (ES)
Copyright (C) 1996 X Consortium
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul M. Antoine
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller (dm@engr.sgi.com)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller
Copyright (C) 1995-99 Simon G. Vogl
Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2004 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2003 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Simon G. Vogl
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly.
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas (gdt@linuxppc.org)
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1998, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 99, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 99, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 2000, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996 Paul M. Antoine.
Copyright (C) 1994 Waldorf GMBH
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2006 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991-2002 SciTech Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1991,92,95,96,97,98,2000,2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991,92,93,96,97,98,99,2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1990, 1999 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1990 - 1992, 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1985 MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.
COPYRIGHT 2020 Shanghai StarFive Technology Co., Ltd.
Alexander Shiyan, <shc_work@mail.ru> MYiRtech.com
Alexander Shiyan, <shc_work@mail.ru>
Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
ARM Limited
2023 Renaud Barbier <renaud.barbier@ametek.com>
2023 Jules Maselbas, Kalray Inc.
2023 John Watts <contact@jookia.org>
2023 Ahmad Fatoum <a.fatoum@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2022 Sam Ravnborg
2022 Enrico Scholz <enrico.scholz@sigma-chemnitz.de>
2022 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
2022 Ahmad Fatoum
2021 Yannick Lanz <yannick.lanz@wifx.net>
2021 Yann Sionneau <ysionneau@kalray.eu>, Kalray Inc.
2021 Wifx
2021 Rouven Czerwinski <r.czerwinski@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2021 Oleksij Rempel, Pengutronix
2021 Jules Maselbas <jmaselbas@kalray.eu>, Kalray Inc.
2021 Dominic Szablewski
2021 David Jander, Protonic Holland
2020 Oleksij Rempel, Pengutronix
2020 David Jander, Protonic Holland
2019 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
2019 Yann Sionneau, Kalray Inc.
2019 Rouven Czerwinski, Pengutronix
2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
2018 Vincent Chardon, Kalray Inc.
2018 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2018 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2018 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
2018 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
2018 Grinn
2018 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>
2017, Microchip Corporation
2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
2017 Uwe Kleine-König <u.kleine-koenig@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2017 Uwe Kleine-Koenig <u.kleine-koenig@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2017 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
2017 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2017 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
2017 NXP
2017 Michael Grzeschik, Pengutronix
2017 Alexander Kurz <akurz@blala.de>
2016,2017 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
2016 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2016 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
2016 Raphaël Poggi <poggi.raph@gmail.com>
2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
2016 Boundary Devices
2016 BayLibre, SAS (Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>)
2016 Alexander Kurz <akurz@blala.de>
2015 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
2015 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
2015 Wadim Egorov, PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
2015 Uwe Kleine-König <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2015 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2015 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2015 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
2015 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
2015 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
2015 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
2015 Linaro Limited
2015 Jason Cobham <cobham.jason@gmail.com>
2015 Atmel
2015 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
2014, 2015 Sebastian Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
2014 Toradex AG (Stefan Agner <stefan@agner.ch>)
2014 Steffen Trumtrar, Pengutronix
2014 Sebastian Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
2014 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2014 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2014 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
2014 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
2014 Raphaël Poggi
2014 Protonic Holland
2014 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
2014 Lucas Stach, Pengutronix
2014 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
2014 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
2014 Gregory Hermant <gregory.hermant@calao-systems.com>
2014 Grant Hernandez <grant.h.hernandez@gmail.com>
2014 Eric Bénard <eric@eukrea.com>
2014 Broadcom Corporation
2014 Beniamino Galvani <b.galvani@gmail.com>
2014 Atmel Corporation (Bo Shen <voice.shen@atmel.com>)
2014 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
2013,2014 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
2013 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
2013 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
2013 SolidRun ltd.
2013 Sebastian Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
2013 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de
2013 Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@gmail.com>, PiKRON s.r.o.
2013 Philipp Zabel
2013 NVIDIA CORPORATION
2013 Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de>
2013 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
2013 Linaro
2013 Jon Nettleton <jon.nettleton@gmail.com>
2013 Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
2013 Gateworks Corporation
2013 Fabio Porcedda <fabio.porcedda@gmail.com>, Telit
2013 Boundary Devices Inc.
2013 Boundary Devices
2013 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
2013 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
2013 ARM Ltd.
2013 ARM Ltd
2013 ARM Limited
2012-2016, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2012-2013 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
2012-2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
2012 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
2012 Wolfram Sang <w.sang@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2012 Steffen Trumtrar, Pengutronix
2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2012 SAMSUNG Electronics
2012 NVIDIA CORPORATION
2012 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>, Free Electrons
2012 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
2012 Linaro Limited
2012 Juergen Beisert <kernel@pengutronix.de>
2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
2012 Jan Weitzel <j.weitzel@phytec.de>
2012 Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2012 Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>
2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2012 Free Electrons
2012 Altera
2012 Alexey Galakhov
2012 ARM Ltd.
2011-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD
2011 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
2011 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
2011 Wolfram Sang <w.sang@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2011 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2011 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2011 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
2011 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
2011 Robert Jarzmik
2011 Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de>
2011 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2011 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
2011 Juergen Kilb <j.kilb@phytec.de>
2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
2011 Hubert Feurstein <h.feurstein@gmail.com>
2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2011 Franck JULLIEN <elec4fun@gmail.com>
2011 Atmel Corporation
2011 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
2010-2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2010-2013 NVIDIA Corporation (http://www.nvidia.com/)
2010-2011 Jaiganesh Narayanan <jnarayanan@atheros.com>
2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2010 Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated (http://www.ti.com/)
2010 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2010 ST-Ericsson SA
2010 Miguel Gaio <miguel.gaio@efixo.com>
2010 Matthias Kaehlcke <matthias@kaehlcke.net>
2010 Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
2010 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
2010 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
2010 Juergen Beisert <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2010 Juergen Beisert <jbe@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2010 Erik Gilling <konkers@google.com>, Google, Inc
2010 Code Aurora Forum
2010 BitBox Ltd
2010 Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il>, Orex Computed Radiography
2010 Atmel Corporation
2009-2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2009-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
2009-2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
2009-2010 Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
2009-2010 Atmel Corporation
2009 Wind River Systems, Inc. (Tom Rix <Tom.Rix@windriver.com>)
2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2009 Sanjeev Premi <premi@ti.com>, Texas Instruments Incorporated
(http://www.ti.com/)
2009 Matthias Kaehlcke <matthias@kaehlcke.net>
2009 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
2009 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
2009 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnio@jcrosoft.com>
2009 Jan Weitzel <armlinux@phytec.de>, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
2009 Ilya Yanok <yanok@emcraft.com>
2009 Holger Schurig <hs4233@mail.mn-solutions.de>
2009 Carlo Caione <carlo@carlocaione.org>
2008-2011 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
2008-2009 Atmel Corporation
2008,2010 Anton Vorontsov <cbouatmailru@gmail.com>
2008,2009 Provigent Ltd.
2008 Texas Instruments (http://www.ti.com/, Sukumar Ghorai <s-ghorai@ti.com>)
2008 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2008 Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
2008 Raghavendra KH <r-khandenahally@ti.com>, Texas Instruments
(http://www.ti.com/)
2008 Peter Korsgaard <jacmet@sunsite.dk>
2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
2008 Martin Mueller <martinmm@pfump.org>
2008 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
2008 Guennadi Liakhovetski <lg@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc
2008 Bernhard Weirich <bernhard.weirich@riedel.net>
2008 Andrew Victor
2008 ARM Limited
2007-2008,2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
2007,2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
2007 Ville Syrjala <syrjala@sci.fi>
2007 SigmaTel, Inc. (Ioannis Kappas <ikappas@sigmatel.com>)
2007 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
2007 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
2007 Red Hat (David Howells <dhowells@redhat.com>)
2007 MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
2007 MontaVista Software, Inc.
2007 Marvell International Ltd.
2007 Deep Root Systems, LLC.
2007 David Brownell
2007 Axis Communications (Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@axis.com>)
2007 Atmel Corporation
2007 Andrew Victor
2007 ATRON electronic GmbH (Jan Nikitenko <jan.nikitenko@gmail.com>)
2007 ARM Limited
2006-2008 Nishanth Menon <x0nishan@ti.com>, Texas Instruments
(http://www.ti.com/)
2006-2007 David Brownell
2006 SAN People
2006 Red Hat (David Howells <dhowells@redhat.com>)
2006 Pavel Pisa <ppisa@pikron.com>, PiKRON
2006 Dominic Rath <Dominic.Rath@gmx.de>
2006 Atmel Corporation
2006 Atmel
2006 Andrew Victor
2006 ARM Ltd.
2005 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
2005 MontaVista Software, Inc (Nicolas Pitre)
2005 Jes Sorensen <jes@trained-monkey.org>
2005 Ivan Kokshaysky
2005 Intec Automation (Mike Lavender <mike@steroidmicros>)
2005 HP Labs
2005 David Brownell
2005 Ben Gardner <bgardner@wabtec.com>
2004-2009 Richard Woodruff <r-woodruff2@ti.com>, Texas Instruments
(http://www.ti.com/)
2004-2006 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
2004-2006 Atmel Corporation
2004-2005 Pierre Ossman
2004 Sascha Hauer, Synertronixx GmbH
2004 Masami Komiya <mkomiya@sonare.it>
2004 ARM Ltd.
2004 ARM Limited
2003-2005 Nokia Corporation (Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@nokia.com>)
2003, 2004 ARM Ltd.
2003 SAN People
2003 Russell King
2003 Kyle Harris <kharris@nexus-tech.net>, Nexus Technologies
2003 Deep Blue Solutions, Ltd
2003 ATMEL
2003 ARM Limited
2002 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
2002 Sysgo Real-Time Solutions GmbH (http://www.elinos.com, Marius Groeger
<mgroeger@sysgo.de>, Alex Zuepke <azu@sysgo.de>)
2002 Sysgo Real-Time Solutions GmbH (http://www.elinos.com, Marius Groeger
<mgroeger@sysgo.de>)
2002 Russell King
2002 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au>
2002 Gary Jennejohn <gj@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
2002 David S. Miller <davem@redhat.com>
2001-2004 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
2001 Erik Mouw <J.A.K.Mouw@its.tudelft.nl>
2000-2004 Wolfgang Denk, wd@denx.de
2000-2004 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
2000-2002 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>
2000 Wolfgang Denk <wd@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
2000 Roland Borde
2000 Rob Taylor <robt@flyingpig.com>, Flying Pig Systems
2000 Paolo Scaffardi
2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
1998, 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>
1997-1999 Russell King
1997-1998 Andrew Tridgell
1996-2003 Russell King
1996-2000 Russell King
1996 Russell King
1995-2002 Russell King
1995-2000 Russell King
1994-2000 Neil Russell
1994, 1995, 2000 Neil Russell
(c) Rob Taylor, Flying Pig Systems. 2000.
(c) MontaVista, Software, Inc. Author: Dale Farnsworth <dfarnsworth@mvista.com>
(c) MontaVista, Software, Inc.
(c) MontaVista Software, Inc. Vitaly Bordug <vbordug@ru.mvista.com>
(c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
(c) Marvell International Ltd.
(c) G. Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
(c) Copyright 2010 Intel Corporation
(c) Copyright 2003 Red Hat Inc <jgarzik@redhat.com>
(c) Copyright 2001 Red Hat Inc <alan@redhat.com>
(c) Copyright 2000 Oleg Drokin <green@crimea.edu> Alan Cox
<alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(c) 2022 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum
(c) 2014 Randy C. Will <randall.will@gmail.com>
(c) 2014 Luka Perkov <luka@openwrt.org>
(c) 2013 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
(c) 2013 Deutsche Telekom Innovation Laboratories
(c) 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2012 Juergen Beisert <kernel@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2012 Daniel Stodden <daniel.stodden@gmail.com>
(c) 2011 Eukrea Electromatique, Eric Bénard <eric@eukrea.com> Alexander Shiyan
<shc_work@mail.ru>
(c) 2010-2018 Joe Perches <joe@perches.com>
(c) 2010 by Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2010 Broadcom
(c) 2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de> 2010 by Marc Kleine-Budde
<kernel@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2008-2010 Andy Whitcroft <apw@canonical.com>
(c) 2008-2009 Marvell Semiconductor
(c) 2007,2008, Andy Whitcroft <apw@uk.ibm.com> (new conditions, test suite)
(c) 2007 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2007 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2006-2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca>
(c) 2005, Joel Schopp <jschopp@austin.ibm.com>
(c) 2004 to support dynamic variables.
(c) 2004 Sascha Hauer <sascha@saschahauer.de>
(c) 2001, Dave Jones.
(c) 1999 Machine Vision Holdings, Inc. Author: David Woodhouse <dwmw2@mvhi.com>
(C) Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Variscite, Ltd.
(C) Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
(C) Marvell International Ltd.
(C) Copyright Yggdrasil Computing, Inc. 2000 Adam J. Richter
(C) Copyright Randy Dunlap 2000
(C) Copyright Motorola, Inc., 2000
(C) Copyright Linus Torvalds 1999
(C) Copyright Linaro, Ltd. 2018
(C) Copyright Johannes Erdfelt 1999-2001
(C) Copyright Gregory P. Smith 1999
(C) Copyright Deti Fliegl 1999
(C) Copyright David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>, IBM Corporation. 2007.
(C) Copyright David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>, IBM Corporation. 2005.
(C) Copyright David Brownell 2000
(C) Copyright Arm Holdings. 2017
(C) Copyright Andreas Gal 1999
(C) Copyright 2023 Ametek Inc.
(C) Copyright 2022 - 2023, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2021 Ahmad Fatoum
(C) Copyright 2020, Toshiba Corporation.
(C) Copyright 2020, Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <nobuhiro1.iwamatsu@toshiba.co.jp>
(C) Copyright 2020, 2021, Toshiba Corporation.
(C) Copyright 2020 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
(C) Copyright 2020 - 2022, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2020 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2018, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2018 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2018 - 2020, Toshiba Corporation.
(C) Copyright 2017 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
(C) Copyright 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
(C) Copyright 2017 - 2022, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2017 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2017 - 2018, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016 Valentin Longchamp, Keymile AG,
valentin.longchamp@keymile.com
(C) Copyright 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
(C) Copyright 2016 Linaro Limited Andrew F. Davis <andrew.davis@xxxxxxxxxx>
(C) Copyright 2016 Alexander Kurz <akurz@blala.de>
(C) Copyright 2016 Alexander Graf <agraf@suse.de>
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2022, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2020, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2018, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2015, 2016 Peter Mamonov <pmamonov@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
(C) Copyright 2015 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
(C) Copyright 2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Daniel Schultz
<d.schultz@phytec.de>
(C) Copyright 2015 Peter Mamonov
(C) Copyright 2015 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2015 Google, Inc
(C) Copyright 2015 CogentEmbedded, Andrey Gusakov
<andrey.gusakov@cogentembedded.com>
(C) Copyright 2015 - 2022, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2015 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2015 - 2016, Xilinx, Inc, Michal Simek <michal.simek@xilinx.com>
Siva Durga Prasad <siva.durga.paladugu@xilinx.com>
(C) Copyright 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Nitin Garg
<nitin.garg@freescale.com> Ye Li <Ye.Li@freescale.com>
(C) Copyright 2014, Ezequiel Garcia <ezequiel.garcia@free-electrons.com>
(C) Copyright 2014 Valentin Longchamp, Keymile AG,
valentin.longchamp@keymile.com
(C) Copyright 2014 Stephen Warren swarren@wwwdotorg.org
(C) Copyright 2014 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2014 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(C) Copyright 2014 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
(C) Copyright 2014 Pengutronix, Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de> Sebastian
Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2014 - Ezequiel Garcia <ezequiel.garcia@free-electrons.com>
(C) Copyright 2014 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2013 Teresa Gámez, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
(C) Copyright 2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2013 David Feng <fenghua@phytium.com.cn>
(C) Copyright 2013 Andre Przywara, Linaro <andre.przywara@linaro.org>
(C) Copyright 2012-2013 Jan Luebbe <j.luebbe@pengutronix.de>
(C) Copyright 2012 by Wolfram Sang
(C) Copyright 2012 Teresa Gámez, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
(C) Copyright 2012 Stephen Warren
(C) Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2012 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Gámez
<t.gamez@phytec.de>
(C) Copyright 2012 Marvell Rami Rosen <rosenr@marvell.com> Thomas Petazzoni
<thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
(C) Copyright 2012 Juergen Beisert - <kernel@pengutronix.de>
(C) Copyright 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2012 Fadil Berisha, <fadil.r.berisha@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2012 - Franck JULLIEN <elec4fun@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2011, Stefan Kristiansson <stefan.kristiansson@saunalahti.fi>
(C) Copyright 2011, Julius Baxter <julius@opencores.org>
(C) Copyright 2011 Wolfram Sang - Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2011 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH, <www.phytec.de> Juergen Kilb
<j.kilb@phytec.de>
(C) Copyright 2011 Jean-Christhophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagniol@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2011 - Franck JULLIEN <elec4fun@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2011 - 2012 Samsung Electronics Uma Shankar
<uma.shankar@samsung.com> Manjunatha C Achar <a.manjunatha@samsung.com>
(C) Copyright 2010-2011 NVIDIA Corporation <www.nvidia.com>
(C) Copyright 2010 Vipin Kumar, ST Micoelectronics, vipin.kumar@st.com.
(C) Copyright 2010 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2010 Stefano Babic, DENX Software Engineering, sbabic@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2010 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2010 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2010 Juergen Beisert - Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2009-2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2009-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2009-2010 Digi International, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(C) Copyright 2009 Marvell Semiconductor <www.marvell.com> Written-by: Prafulla
Wadaskar <prafulla@marvell.com>
(C) Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation Author: Jacob Pan (jacob.jun.pan@intel.com)
(C) Copyright 2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2009 Atin Malaviya (atin.malaviya@gmail.com)
(C) Copyright 2008-2014 Rockchip Electronics Peter, Software Engineering,
<superpeter.cai@gmail.com>.
(C) Copyright 2008-2010 Stefan Roese, DENX Software Engineering, sr@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2008-2010 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
(C) Copyright 2008 by Pengutronix
(C) Copyright 2008 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@denx.de>
(C) Copyright 2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Nishanth Menon
<x0nishan@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2008 Semihalf
(C) Copyright 2008 Marvell Semiconductor
(C) Copyright 2008 Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Victor Gallardo
<vgallardo@amcc.com> Adam Graham <agraham@amcc.com>
(C) Copyright 2008 - 2009 Windriver, <www.windriver.com> Tom Rix
<Tom.Rix@windriver.com>
(C) Copyright 2007-2018 Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2007-2013 Michal Simek
(C) Copyright 2007-2012 PetaLogix Qld Pty Ltd
(C) Copyright 2007 Zhang Wei, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
<wei.zhang@freescale.com>
(C) Copyright 2007 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(C) Copyright 2007 Pengutronix, Juergen Beisert <j.beisert@pengutronix.de>
(C) Copyright 2007 Gerald Van Baren, Custom IDEAS, vanbaren@cideas.com Pantelis
Antoniou <pantelis.antoniou@gmail.com> and Matthew McClintock
<msm@freescale.com>
(C) Copyright 2006-2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Syed Mohammed Khasim
<x0khasim@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2006-2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Richard Woodruff
<r-woodruff2@ti.com> Nishanth Menon <x0nishan@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2006-2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Richard Woodruff
<r-woodruff2@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2006-2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Nishanth Menon
<x0nishan@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2006-2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2006 by Harald Welte <hwelte@hmw-consulting.de>
(C) Copyright 2006 Thomas Waehner, TQ-System GmbH, thomas.waehner@tqs.de.
(C) Copyright 2006 Eric Schumann, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
(C) Copyright 2006 Eric Schumann, Phytec Messatechnik GmbH
(C) Copyright 2006 ATMEL Rousset, Lacressonniere Nicolas
(C) Copyright 2005 Eric Benard ebenard@eukrea.com
(C) Copyright 2005 2N Telekomunikace, a.s. <www.2n.cz> Ladislav Michl
<michl@2n.cz>
(C) Copyright 2004-2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated Richard Woodruff
<r-woodruff2@ti.com> Aneesh V <aneesh@ti.com> Balaji Krishnamoorthy
<balajitk@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2004-2008 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Richard Woodruff
<r-woodruff2@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2004 esd gmbh <www.esd-electronics.com> Reinhard Arlt
<reinhard.arlt@esd-electronics.com>
(C) Copyright 2004 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2004 Mark Jonas, Freescale Semiconductor, mark.jonas@motorola.com.
(C) Copyright 2004 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 2004 ARM Ltd. Philippe Robin, <philippe.robin@arm.com>
(C) Copyright 2003-2005 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2003, Motorola, Inc. Xianghua Xiao and Andy Fleming 2003-2009
(C) Copyright 2003, Motorola, Inc. Andy Fleming
(C) Copyright 2003 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2003 Motorola Inc. Xianghua Xiao, X.Xiao@motorola.com
(C) Copyright 2003 Motorola Inc. Xianghua Xiao, (X.Xiao@motorola.com)
(C) Copyright 2003 Gary Jennejohn, DENX Software Engineering <garyj@denx.de>
(C) Copyright 2003 Author : Hamid Ikdoumi (Atmel)
(C) Copyright 2002-2006 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2002-2004 by David Brownell All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright 2002-2004 Brad Kemp, Seranoa Networks, Brad.Kemp@seranoa.com
(C) Copyright 2002, 2003 Motorola Inc. Xianghua Xiao (X.Xiao@motorola.com)
(C) Copyright 2002 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2002 Sysgo Real-Time Solutions, GmbH <www.elinos.com> Rolf
Offermanns <rof@sysgo.de>
(C) Copyright 2002 Sysgo Real-Time Solutions, GmbH <www.elinos.com> Marius
Groeger <mgroeger@sysgo.de>
(C) Copyright 2002 Sysgo Real-Time Solutions, GmbH <www.elinos.com> Alex Zuepke
<azu@sysgo.de>
(C) Copyright 2002 Rich Ireland, Enterasys Networks, rireland@enterasys.com.
(C) Copyright 2002 Gary Jennejohn, DENX Software Engineering, <gj@denx.de>
(C) Copyright 2002 Detlev Zundel, DENX Software Engineering, dzu@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2002 2003 Adam Bezanson, Network Audio Technologies, Inc.
bezanson@netaudiotech.com>
(C) Copyright 2001 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2001 Denis Peter, MPL AG Switzerland
(C) Copyright 2000-2006 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000-2005 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000-2004 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000-2003 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000-2002 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000-2002 David Brownell
(C) Copyright 2000-2001 David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net>
(C) Copyright 2000, 2001 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000, 2001 Erik Theisen, Wave 7 Optics, etheisen@mindspring.com.
Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000 Rob Taylor, Flying Pig Systems. robt@flyingpig.com.
(C) Copyright 2000 Paolo Scaffardi, AIRVENT SAM s.p.a - RIMINI(ITALY),
arsenio@tin.it
(C) Copyright 2000 - 2003 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
(C) Copyright 1999 Roman Weissgaerber <weissg@vienna.at>
(C) Copyright 1999 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1997 Thomas Schoebel-Theuer,  Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1996, 97, 99, 2002, 03 Ralf Baechle
(C) 2022 Adrian Negreanu
(C) 2019 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2018 MediaTek Inc.
(C) 2017 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
(C) 2015 Atmel Corporation
(C) 2013 Sebastian Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
(C) 2013 Marc Kleine-Budde <mkl@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2012 Michel Lespinasse <walken@google.com>
(C) 2011 Wolfgang Ocker <weo@reccoware.de>
(C) 2011 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
(C) 2011 RC Module, Sergey Mironov <ierton@gmail.com>
(C) 2011 DENX Software Engineering, Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de>
(C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
(m.nazarewicz@samsung.com)
(C) 2007, Sascha Hauer <sha@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2007 by OpenMoko, Inc. Author: Harald Welte <laforge@openmoko.org>
(C) 2007 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2007 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2006 by Harald Welte <hwelte@hmw-consulting.de>
(C) 2005 Wind River Systems
(C) 2003 Wolfgang Denk, wd@denx.de
(C) 2003 Vladimir Oleynik <dzo@simtreas.ru>
(C) 2002 Nadia Yvette Chambers, IBM
(C) 2002 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
(C) 2000 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
(C) 1999 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@suse.de>
(C) 1998 Gabriel Paubert, paubert@iram.es





